Warning. The information shared in these
conversations and videos are intended
for general knowledge and entertainment
purposes only. It should not be
considered as legal advice or
professional guidance. Additionally, any
documentation or references to specific
content are solely for the purpose of
discussion and understanding. It does
not imply endorsement, promotion, or
support of said content. The views
expressed in these videos and/or
conversation are those of the
individuals involved and do not
represent any official stance or
opinion. The content you are about to
experience may contain strong language
including explicit words and phrases.
This language is used for artistic
expression and may be integral to the
story line or character development. It
is important to note that the use of
such language does not endorse or
promote offensive behavior. Viewer
discretion is advised and please enjoy
the show responsibly. Disclaimer.
Copyright disclaimer under section 107
of the Copyright Act 1976. Allowances
made for fair use for purposes such as
criticism, comment, news reporting,
teaching, scholarship, education, and
research. The Canadian Copyright Act
section 29 allows an individual to use
copyright protected materials when
creating a new work such as a mashup and
to post the new work online on a site
like YouTube. Fair dealing provision for
specific purposes like research, private
study, education, parity, satire,
criticism, review, and news reporting.
STEP UP. STEP UP.
>> YEAH,
>> we
step in the arena. Mind lock and loaded.
Truth on my blade, every lines exploded.
You swing your words, I counter with
precision. Battle of reason. This is my
mission. RAISE YOUR FIST, LET THEM KNOW.
Raise your voice, LET IT BLOW. WE CLASH
all sorts of reasons. Cut through. No
retreat. No fear, no chain, no treason.
We clash out of reason. We clash out of
reason. Cut through. No retreat. No
fear, no chain, no treason. We clash out
of reason.
>> Step back. I'm a scholar and a fighter.
Every claim you throw, I STRIKE TIGHTER.
LOGIC AND POWER. I never f in the war.
I'm solid gold.
>> RAISE YOUR FIST. LET THEM KNOW. Raise
your voice. LET IT BLOW. WE CLASH OUR
swords of reason. Cut through. No
retreating. No fear, no chain, no
treason. We clash our swords a reason.
We clash our swords of reason. Cut
through. No retreating. No fear, no
chain, no treason. We clash our swords
of reason.
>> Every thought of fortress, every claim
of storm.
>> We forge a truth where chaos takes form.
Ideas ignite like lightning through the
night. We clash
>> in the war minds. WE BRING THE LIGHT.
>> WE CLASH.
>> STEP IN. STEP IN. Feel the heat. We
clash.
>> Truth is my weapon never beat.
>> We raise them high. BREAK THE CEILING.
>> WITH A FIRE, WITH A FEELING. WE CLASH
ALL SAP.
Cut through lies. No retreating. No
fear, no chain, no treason. We clash a
reason. We clash of reason. Cut through
lies. No retreating. No fear, no chain,
no treason. We clash our swords of
reason. We clash our swords of reason.
No fear, no chain, no treason.
>> Welcome everybody to Swords of Reason
right here on the Speak Easy Show.
Mondays, Tuesdays, and Wednesdays. This
is where logic meets passion. If you're
new here, the format is simple. Each
debater gets 10 minutes for their
opening statement followed by 5 minutes
of uh un uh uninterrupted rebuttal.
Sorry. Uh after that we enter into the
arena for a full hour of back and forth
debate. This is where the arguments
clash and the iron can sharpen the iron.
And then finally each side delivers a
fivem minute closing statement to lock
in their case. Uh when that's done we
move into the 30 minute Q&A. Uh, I'll
put a Q&A in the chat for you guys, but
keep in mind the super chats, PayPal,
and Cash App questions will get
priority. So, if they fill up the entire
30 minutes um of the free chat questions
may not get answered. So, if there's
something you want guaranteed to be
asked, make sure you send it through uh
one of the priority options. Once the
formal debate wraps, we open the doors
for the chaos and chill panel. This is
where the community can hop in,
challenge the debaters, ask follow-ups
if the debaters choose to stick around,
cuz that part is optional for them. But
it's always where things get wild
regardless. Okay. Uh, today's debate
prompt, empathy is useless and should
not play a role or play any role in
shaping society. And for the
affirmative, we have Abe Dinkis. Known
for diving head first into the hottest
cultural flash points, breaking down
political back uh battlegrounds, and
never backing down from a heated
exchange. This is a voice you've likely
seen lighting up open panels across the
platform. Whether it's policy, culture,
or the controversy of the week, Abe
comes ready to challenge narratives and
test ideas in real time. and you can
find his channel in the description. And
for the negative, we have Terak, a man
that thrives where controversy meets
comedy. Known for tackling the hottest
cultural flash points, known for
throwing down in political debates and
making frequent appearances on open
panels across the platform.
Terak brings sharp takes with a twist of
internet chaos. an aspiring professional
memestered
the art of turning viral moments into
conversation starters. And if that
wasn't enough, uh, Terak also hosts a
spin the wheel show where viewers can
pay to roll the dice and ignite some
truly fire discussions where it's
policy, culture, or pure panel madness.
Terri comes ready to stir the pot and
keep the chat alive. and you can also
find his channel in the description. All
right, with that being said, we are
going to start with the affirmative. So,
Abe, uh, whenever you're ready for your
opening statement, I will start the
timer up with your voice. Awesome.
Sounds good. All right. So
I would say
the prompt empathy is useless and should
not play any role in
the
shaping or structuring of society
is true.
Far from being a timeless virtue or the
bedrock of human progress, empathy, as
we understand it today, is a modern
invention. A dangerous illusion propped
up as moral necessity. What people now
call empathy,
the supposed ability to truly feel
another's emotions as if they were your
own, is neurologically and
experimentally
uh unattainable. We cannot literally
inhabit another person's inner world.
Our brains do not merge minds.
True empathy is the sense of perfect
sharing and experiencing someone else's
feelings vicariously
and identically
is a physical impossibility, a woo woo
falsehood, a romantic myth pedled by
those who confuse emotional projection
with genuine understanding. To claim
that this modern notion of empathy has
ancient Greek roots would be a lie. The
ancient Greek had no direct equivalent
or contemporary concept of empathy. The
English word empathy itself is a 20th
century coinage translated from the
German infolonged
feeling into and only later retrofitted
onto Greek terms.
Ancient Greeks
had concepts like sympathia, literally
feeling with, closer to what we call
sympathy today, a recognition of shared
suffering or concern without the
delusional pretense of identical
emotional immersion. But the fullblown
modern empathy with its claims of
infeinging or emotional fusion was
absent. In fact, ancient Greece empathia
carried connotations of passion
uh partial partiality or even intense
emotional states sometimes negative like
malice in modern Greek usage far removed
from today's saintly virtue. Ancient
thinkers like Aristotle discussed pity,
alios or compassion in limited regulated
ways, often confined to inroups
like in-group preference. As norms
restricted broad empathy to maintain
societal hierarchies, including slavery,
they recognized the risk of unchecked
emotional sharing, viewing it as
potentially destabilizing rather than
universally benevolent. Equating ancient
Greek ideas with modern empathy is
historical revisionism. The ancients
prioritized reason, virtue, and measured
sympathy over any fantasy of perfect
emotional merging.
What is real and what actually functions
in human interactions is sympathy, a
cognitive recognition of another's
suffering coupled with concern or pity
without the impossible claim of feeling
their exact pain? Sympathy allows us to
acknowledge hardship, offer support, and
act rationally. Empathy, by contrast,
pretends to bridge an unbridgegable gap
leading to emotional to an emotional
contagion, biased judgment, and poor
decisions. Neuroscience confirms mirror
neurons
uh mirror neuron activity provides uh
simulation and approximation, not
literal shared experience. We feel
echoes, not the real thing. As scholars
emphasize, complete effective empathy is
probably impossible because of our own
histories, biology, and perspectives
forever filter and distort it. Empathy
is a projection dressed up as a
profoundity, a feel-good fiction that
collapses under scrutiny. This myth
becomes catastrophic when elevated to
structure
or shaping of society.
Societies built on this impossible
feeling with demand policies rooted in
subjective emotional equivalence rather
than objective facts leading to
ineffective uh inefficiency and
injustice. Nowhere has this falsehood
wre more havoc than in modern feminism,
LGBTQ,
the trans movement, socialism,
communism. In feminism, where empathy
was weaponized as a moral battering ram,
from the second wave onwards, activists
harnessed the empathetic impulse,
insisting we must feel women's
oppression as our own to push narratives
to policies like expansive uh
affirmative action, gender quotas, and
Title 9 overreach. sold on the
empathetic plea to understand systematic
patriarchy through shared emotional
pain. But since true empathy is
impossible, these demands devolved into
selective projection, amplifying certain
grievances while ignoring counter
evidence or male perspectives. The
outcome eroded me mediocrity,
deepened gender resentments,
entitlements, overequality, and
accelerated family breakdowns. Clear
markers of societal decay.
This empathetic overreach extends
everywhere empathy masquerades as policy
foundation. Criminal justice reforms
driven by feelings. Offenders trauma
ignore victims.
Real pain correlating
with crime surges in empathetic
hotspots.
Welfare bloated by sympathetic stories
but propped up by uh the empathy myth
traps people in dependency. Immigration
swayed by individual hardship tales
drains resources without rational
planning. When we pretend to feel
everyone's pain perfectly, we prioritize
the loudest or most sympathetic
narratives, eroding standards,
accountability, and resilience.
Productivity falls as merits yield to
emotional appeasements.
Moral uh moral relativism rises
as tough decisions are avoided. Cultural
hypers sensitivity weakens generations
raised on feelings over facts. In my in
my constructive case, I advance three
contentions. First, empathy's claim
uh hold on, sorry. First, empathy's
claimed mechanism is physically
impossible, a neurological approximation
at best, making it an unreliable, biased
guide for judgment. Second, it's
weaponized in feminism
exemplifies how the empathy myth
promotes division and entitlement,
hastening gender wars and societal
fragment fragmentation rather than
harmony. Third, empathydriven structures
correlate with measurable decay, higher
crime, economic drag, family
instability, proving it unfit, even
harmful for societal architecture.
My opponent may cling to empathy as
humanity's glue, but strip away the
woowoo and the ahistorical claims to
ancient wisdom. And it's revealed as
sympathy in disguise. Used
uh uh in disguise, useful in measure,
disastrous when fetishist uh fetish uh
fetishized.
True progress demands reason, evidence,
and sympathy's measured concern, not an
impossible fantasy of shared souls. A
society indulging this myth invites
fragility and decline.
In summation, folks, empathy is fake and
gay. It leads to fragility, feminism,
worries, destruction, collapse, and
decay of nations. Thank you.
All right, thank you for that opening
statement and uh with that we are going
to hand the mic over to Terak and Terak
whenever you are ready for your opening
statement I will start the timer up with
your voice.
>> Yeah 100% appreciate you easy. Thanks
for having me on. Appreciate you ape for
showing up and I apologize to everyone
in the audience uh for sleeping in. Um
we're here to discuss empathy. Uh and
important thing is to define what
empathy is. the action of understanding,
being aware of, being sensitive to and
vicariously experiencing the feelings,
thoughts, and experience of another.
This is not to say that you're you're
actually going to physically be that
person. This is just to be able to put
yourself mentally in their position to
assess like what their feelings would be
to try and understand their position,
right? To also uh uh differentiate
between empathy and sympathy cuz
sometimes they get mixed together.
Sympathy is a feeling of sincere concern
for someone who's experiencing something
difficult or painful. Empathy involves
actively sharing in the person's
emotional experience. So empathy is bas
basically like uh it's a sign of
intelligence being able to put yourself
into to someone's else position and be
able to correctly assess what the
emotion state would be. Um, confusion
about the pair of words likely stems
from the fact that the the word
sympathy, which dates back to the 16th
century at one time, carried both of
these meanings. When empathy coined when
empathy was coined in the early 20th
century, it was first applied in context
of philosophy, aesthetics, and
psychology in which it still is
technical use. So, in terms of the the
the back and forth between the two, um,
like empathy again is just being able to
put yourself in someone else's position.
Sympathy itself is having genuine care
or emotions about that person. Right? So
when Abe says that empathy is woowoo
magic and all this stuff, this is a
deliberate attempt at just trying to to
to poo poo uh empathy because he does
acknowledge that sympathy is a thing and
he doesn't seem to have an issue with
sympathy. Um so in terms of like the the
like the statements of like you cannot
merge with someone physically, it's like
yeah, of course, but this is a mental
thing. It's an intellect thing. think
you know what I mean? Um, in terms of
the like it's delusion or it's like woo
woo magic, uh, I think Abe kind of like
shoots himself in the foot because on
the one hand he's saying that oh like
this is woowoo magic this is an
impossible thing to do but then he also
states that like through the
weaponization of empathy and like this
suicidal empathy that we have in society
like that's why societyy's degrading. So
he's saying that it it's a fugazi it
doesn't exist but then there's real uh
measurable outcomes from it. So which
one is it? behave. Um, in terms of the
like why is this important for society,
empathy itself, like I said, is is being
able to understand uh uh the both your
countrymen and and other people. Um,
being able to design laws with the
understanding of everyone of your
countrymen involved. Um, that is an
important thing to be able to do. you
don't want to pass laws and for half the
country to to to rise up and try to
overthrow you because they don't want
that law. You know what I mean? Um, in
terms of the uh like what we're seeing
in modern day with empathy like a was
saying like the the the the uh the too
much empathy, you know what I mean? Like
we have more empathy for, you know, the
illegal immigrant than we do for our own
brother or sister or or family members.
Um, again, this is too much of the
empathy. Too much of anything is never a
good thing. You know what I mean? So,
just because there there's negative
outcomes in terms of what's going on in
society, and I'd even argue that some of
the the the the the
groups that Abe mentioned, for example,
like the feminists, um, they don't they
claim to have empathy, but they actually
don't have empathy for men. And we can
see this multiple uh uh situations play
out on the whatever podcast uh or just
across the the whole like red pill or
manosphere content all the stuff where
there's plenty of women who will claim
that they are empathetic or that they're
sympathetic to to men. But the very next
video they're basically saying all men
are trash and all these kind of uh uh
degradations on men, all this kind of
stuff. So, in terms of the actual uh
empathy, being able to put yourself in
someone else's position, claiming that
you're empathetic to men and then
claiming that all men are trash is not
empathy. Uh so, I'd even question uh
like a in terms of the actual degra
degradation that we're seeing across
society is not actually due to empathy.
It's it's a lack of empathy uh
particularly for men as why we're seeing
the the degradation. Um, other than
that, in in terms of the uh, yeah, I I
think I've got pretty much everything
covered. I do apologize that, like I
said, I just I just woke up, but I I'll
probably leave it off there.
All right. Thank you for that opening
statement. So, that's going to wrap the
opening statements and uh, we're going
to move into the uh, rebuttal round.
Okay. This is each debater gets 5
minutes uninterrupted to directly
respond to uh their opponent's opening
statement. So, it's not a back and forth
yet. And then when your 5 minutes are
up, we'll go to the other side. And then
after that, we are going to get into the
open floor. Uh so, with that being said,
we're going to hand the mic back over to
Abe. And Abe, whenever you're ready for
your rebuttal, I will start the timer up
with your voice.
>> Awesome. Okay. So I would say that my
opponent seems to missed that I said in
my opening that
empathy as they've called it is simply
using sympathy and then acting as though
they can feel what you are feeling
because it is actually impossible for
them to be inside of your mind. And
empathy is the state of being able to
feel with someone which is an
impossibility. You can feel like
emotions. You can have similar emotions.
You may even believe that you're feeling
the same thing as that person. But it
doesn't make it the case because we are
all individual human beings. We have
different histories. We have different
stories. We have different perspectives.
Uh and so in the in the moment that you
believe you're feeling the same thing as
someone, you've deluded yourself. The
only thing you have is sympathy and a
belief that you are feeling the same
thing as that person. Making empathy a
falsehood.
It is a word they have conscripted to
mean something that is impossible and
then they claim they are doing that
thing. Now he said the the term the the
that empathy was coined in the early
20th century. I would agree with that.
Somewhere around uh 1908 or so we saw
that uh in the US and other places it
was spread around because in philosophy
it began to be used. Um and then it was
highly popularized after our world wars
and then it was weaponized after that
point utilized in all social movements
in order to garner support through
emotional manipulation. And I would say
that if you're if you're saying that it
is good somehow that people are
manipulating others, I would say that in
every case that we look at the movements
using empathy or what they would call
empathy, even though it's not real, it's
just sympathy and then pretending like
you're feeling what they're feeling. In
in all of those cases, it was utilized
to garner support for movements of in
groups. Feminism used it for in-group
preference of women.
And so I would say that
as as a as a building block for a
society, it is flawed. So flawed and and
wrong to try and claim that this thing
that isn't what it's
uh claimed to be uh is capable of
helping build a society. I think you're
building it on a foundation of delusion
and inroup preference and it will lead
to collapsing because you have to like
we've seen with feminism negate the
entirety of an other group
within your own foundational society.
So with all that being said, even if it
were the case that we could feel what
others feel, it doesn't make for a good
uh foundation for building a society or
a uh or shaping or structuring a society
because it's too subjective like
emotion. It is too subjective. We need a
foundation that is solid and and
emotions don't do that for us. facts
over feelings. And so I would say that
would be my rebuttal to his opening.
>> All right, thank you for that rebuttal.
And with that, we're going to hand the
mic back over to Terry. Terak, whenever
you're ready for your five minute
rebuttal, I will start the timer up with
your voice.
>> Uh, you're muted.
>> My bad. Thank you very much. Uh so yeah,
it seems like Abe is going after uh
sympathy whereas like I said I made that
that clearer distinction that like empty
you're actually putting yourselves in
that in in that person's position. Um in
terms of the like benefits to societies
like this is I'd argue even necessary
for society cuz if you're not able to
put yourself in other people's positions
like you're not going to make good laws.
Um, in terms of the like uh what you're
saying in terms like uh forcing people
or uh manipulating people, that's
basically the the two two ways that they
get you to follow the law. They they
either force you to follow the law or
they'll seduce you into following the
law. And the only way you can seduce
somebody is if you have empathy. So
again, I'm I'm not sure if if Abee's
like like he's he's saying on the one
hand that this is like it's all woo woo,
it's all fake and all this stuff, but
then he's also saying that it's being
weaponized. So, how can it be weaponized
if they if it doesn't exist?
You know what I mean? But I I think I
can leave the the rebuttals there. Get
into the the open floor. All right.
Thank you. Short and sweet. That's
always a good one. Uh great rebuttals
from both sides. All right. Uh before
we get into the uh open floor back and
forth, um let me talk to the audience
real quick. If you are watching right
now, make sure you hit that like button,
subscribe to the channel, and subscribe
to tonight's debaters. Their links are
in the description. Uh we host all kinds
of debates here on Swords of Reason,
politics, culture, ethics, internet
topics. Anything where reasoning and
passion can collide, uh we throw it in
the arena. So, if you enjoy this format,
make sure you stay locked in cuz we got
a lot more coming. I promise you that.
Also, a reminder for the live chat after
the closing statements, we'll be doing a
30 minute Q&A. So, I've already dropped
the Q&A in the chat there for you. But
remember, super chats, PayPals, cash
apps, these do get priority. And if they
fill up the whole 30 minutes, we may not
get to the Q&A in the chat. So, if you
have something you really want answered,
send it through one of the priority
options and we'll make sure it gets
asked. And uh finally, thank you to both
of our debaters for being here tonight
and bringing your perspectives into the
arena. And uh whenever one of you is
ready to start the open floor exchange,
just jump in and I will start the timer
up with your voice.
>> So I guess I would start here with you.
Uh Terak, if I have a bicycle, but I
call it a dingle hopper and I say that
it can fly and the you can see the bike.
Does the bike exist? And is it a jingle
hopper? And can it fly?
>> In terms of the uh can it fly, it
depends on on your definitions of words
here.
>> Okay. So my whole point in my opening
was that empathy is a physical
impossibility in the reality we live in.
And what people are calling the thing,
right? What they are call they're saying
empathy. And what they mean is
sympathy, but imagining they're feeling
what you're feeling. And then they want
everyone to jump in on it as well. And
that's how it's utilized in the world we
live in today. They want you to feel the
exact feeling
>> which is a similar is a similar thing
not like doing devil's advocate like
when you're training for the debate.
Would you not have someone who would
have like understood let's say my
position and then tried to to defend my
position across so we could practice
before this debate? Is that not empathy?
>> That's not empathy. That's
>> what would that be called?
>> That's called cooperation.
>> Cooperation. But the person would have
to understand position that I'm going to
to give that I'm giving right now.
>> So they'll have your exact thoughts.
They'll have your exact thoughts, your
exact feelings to understand the
position. That's not to have the exact
thoughts.
>> That's that's my point. They can't have
the exact thoughts. They can't have what
is used
>> to understand my position though.
>> They can that's like cognitive
understanding isn't the same as empathy.
Empathy is a feeling base where you can
feel what others feel in the exact way
they're feeling them, which is an
impossibility.
The action of understanding, being aware
of, being sensitive to, and vicariously
experiencing the feelings, thoughts, and
experience of another.
>> Okay. And what's sympathy, Terry?
Uh, one sec.
Sympathy is a feeling of sincere concern
for someone who is experiencing
something difficult or painful.
>> Now, can you tell me the difference
between those?
>> Yeah. Empathy is actually being able to
put yourself in that position to
understand actually put yourself in that
position.
>> You can you can't cuz you can't have
their mind.
>> So you you can't have an imagination
>> You imagine it. It doesn't make it true.
That'd be like mind readading.
>> Just cuz you think you can doesn't mean
it's true. They don't have your brain
chemistry. They don't have your
experiences. They don't have your
>> doesn't make it an exact science. No. in
terms of like what they're actually
feeling in that specific moment, all
that kind of stuff. But to put yourself
in that position where for example like
something bad happened to this person,
you know what I mean? You could say,
well, if that thing happened to me, how
would I feel?
>> Is bad the same to you and to me? Do we
feel bad the same way?
>> So, we're not able to use the word bad
in society.
>> No, what I'm saying no idea what that
means.
>> I can say I'm sympathetic to the
situation of the person. I cannot say
empathetic. I can't say I know how you
feel because I don't actually know how
you feel. I only
>> Oh, okay. So,
>> I know how you feel.
>> I was I was I I I almost slept in for
this debate. Like, are you telling me
you don't know how that feels?
>> I know how it feels for me. I don't know
how it feels for you.
>> Okay. Yeah. So, you you know the feeling
though?
>> For me? I can't know how that feels.
>> Yeah. So, like are you telling me that
like like person's anger, one sec,
person A's anger is completely unrelated
and cannot be uh shared in any way
whatsoever with persons B's anger. Like
when I say I'm angry and when you say
you're angry, we're both evoking the
same meaning.
>> No, you don't know that. You literally
can't know that it's the same thing.
>> So, we could tell you if someone was
angry, they might be shouting, they
might be a bit emotional, different
things like that. No,
>> I'm saying there's there could be
similarities, but that doesn't mean you
know.
>> You don't know what's in their head. You
don't know what's in their emotional
pallet.
>> We could go into deep onlogical
discussions about knowledge and and all
this kind of stuff, but in terms of like
the the actual prompt of empathy being
useful to society or not, being able to
understand other people is a useful
tool.
Understanding is not the same as
empathy. Empathy is being able to feel
what they're feeling. If it's feel with,
it is not the same as just knowing
something. You're you're trying to
conflate or or make an equivalency.
>> No, sympathy is feeling with. Empathy is
feeling in.
>> Well, the point is that you can't feel
what they're feeling. You can feel an
approximation of what they're feeling.
And that's not what empathy is used for
>> in the world we live in. Otherwise,
people wouldn't be running around saying
they're impaths. They can feel what
you're feeling. They can walk into a
room and know what everyone's feeling in
the room.
>> It's woo woo [__]
>> You can have you can have the ability to
recognize a pattern and you can know how
you felt in that same pattern,
>> but you can't know how they feel. You
can only guess at what
>> I got. I got you. So, if if we played a
video right now, right? Easy put up a
video and it was like some dude got
kicked in the nuts and we all went,
"What? What is that?
>> Knowing that that's painful.
>> Oh, so that's empathy. Being able to put
yourself in that position and and almost
feel that feeling of getting kicked in
the nuts with that dude in the video.
Correct.
>> Are you sharing the exact feeling with
him in the moment you're in his head?
>> Where you put the exact feeling? Where's
the exact feeling? Where's Where is
this? What is this ape? The action of
understanding, being aware of, being
sensitive to and vicariously
experiencing feelings, thoughts, and
experience with another. If you're
sharing exact
>> If you're sharing it, if you're sharing
it,
>> yes,
>> it is the same.
>> If we share, if if One sec one sec. If
we share a bag of of Pringles or
something like that, are we going to be
eating the exact same crisp?
>> No, we're sharing the same bag of
Pringles, though,
>> you're sharing the emotions. You're not
from the same bag.
>> Yeah, from the same bag. It's not going
to be the same crisp.
>> Yeah.
>> So, from the same bag,
>> how does that work? It's going to be the
same rough emotion of pain in your
notes.
>> Yeah.
>> You're not But you're not sharing their
pain. You don't even know.
>> You were sharing.
>> No, you were saying the exact You're not
You're not experiencing the exact thing.
No, you're sharing it, but you're not
doing the exact. No, but that's exactly
how how uh that's exactly how empathy is
used is they they literally when you
talk to people and they're talking about
empathy, their belief is they know
exactly how that feels.
Otherwise, it's sympathy. If it's not
the if you don't know the same thing
they're feeling, then you're just
feeling sympathy. It's not empathy. And
sympathy is fine because sympathy can be
measured and responsible because you are
not stuck in the actual emotional state.
They are you're outside of it realizing
that they're feeling something. So like
jump into
>> Yeah.
>> impos like with the with the empathy
with the the kick in the nuts video.
Another one is like if you ever see um
>> you're watching a movie or whatever and
then the dude falls off and then you all
of a sudden have a feeling that you're
falling. I mean that's empathy. These
are like physical sensations that I'm
that I'm listing that prove that like
empathy is an actual human thing. Like
that's not sensation as the person.
>> When you have that when you have that
sensation that you're falling cuz you're
watching a movie that someone's falling,
whatever. That's not sympathy. That's
empathy.
>> That's merely it's not it's still not
empathy. even from listing off like the
scientific process, but that's even
that's not
>> like in order for like when you're kind
of listing out like the feminist and and
all this kind of [__] like you're basing
that they're weaponizing something
that's not real.
>> No, I'm saying they're using sympathy to
see there's an issue and then claiming
they feel it as well the exact same way
so that people will jump on a bandwagon
and do what they want. There's a
difference because you
>> Yeah. means that once I which means that
like that action of of uh putting people
in that position or in that mental state
is empathy.
>> You're still wrong.
>> So it does work.
>> You're still wrong because even what
you're talking about all of these things
are called sympathetic response. It's
not empathy. It's a sympathetic response
to whatever incoming information is
received. It's a sympathetic response.
Empathy is a new creation in order to
make people feel like their sympathy
should be so much more, so much bigger,
so much in people's feelings, in their
emotions, which you cannot do. You don't
have their brain chemistry, their
knowledge, their perspective, their all
the things that you would have to share
to actually understand that situation.
And so what I'm saying is you're going
to base uh the shaping or the structure
of society on the feelings of people
that they're claiming they share even
though it's impossible for them to fully
share those feelings
>> in any meaningful way.
>> Yeah. How would you feel if you didn't
have breakfast this morning?
>> Hungry probably.
>> How would you know?
>> How would you know? Abe,
because I've done it before.
>> Yeah, but you're saying that like you
were able to answer that question, but
you had breakfast this morning. So, how
were you able to answer that question
without having breakfast?
>> I didn't have breakfast this morning,
and I am hungry at the moment. But
>> yeah, but you answered a hypothetical.
One sec. One sec. One sec, Gabe. You
answered a hypothetical, but you weren't
in that position. So, how do you know?
>> Cuz I know me. Cuz I have my mind.
Because I live my life.
>> Oh, so why can't you I know people
argue. I know I know humans. I know how
they react.
>> Have you been them?
>> Yeah. Look, have have you been like this
is the thing. Have you been
>> I've been me. I have never been someone
else. Have you?
>> This is literally the claim. This is
literally the claim of like the trans
movement. What I'm pointing to How do
you know you feel like you're a
different thing than you are? What we do
what we do with hypotheticals is we give
situations and given those the
information in that situation we can
apply how one would feel
>> in that situation or or how one would go
about that situation because just
because it doesn't actually just because
it doesn't actually happen doesn't mean
that we can't apply certain tricks and
and and uh tools to these situations. So
in this same situation where something
like I said hypothetically I could
imagine a situation that's never
happened to either you or me before and
we could still answer that uh that
question. Correct.
>> Possibly. It depends on what it is
obviously but
>> so so in terms of like being a useful
tool like hypotheticals are a useful
tool. Correct.
>> Sure.
>> Yes. You need empathy to to to have
hypotheticals. Correct. No, you need to
experience because if I had never exper
like how do you how can you then put a
hypothetical of something you didn't
experience? Then
>> you you literally asked me the the
question to see if people understand
hypotheticals
and because I've actually experienced
that in my life, I know what the
response to my body would feel like. Oh,
the answer.
>> Yes, but I'm saying hypotheticals in
terms of like when you're putting in new
policies
for lock 17 and there was seven apes
holding on to your testicles. I wouldn't
know that I
>> when you're when you're when you're
doing new laws or policies, whatever,
just going through future uh accounts or
situations that you need to account for,
which is why you use hypotheticals.
>> So, in situations where it's never
happened before, you're saying that it's
impossible to put yourself in that
situation.
>> You're doing cognitive think work.
You're not literally feeling.
>> That's what empathy is. It's an
intellectual skill.
>> You're It's an emotional
manipulation. It It's literally saying
because I have sympathy and I understand
how things have affected me, I can look
at people and say, "I'm sorry that's
happening to you. When that happened to
me, it sucked for me. I can't know
exactly how it happens to you."
>> You can't you can't actually do that.
Like you can't have sympathy for
something you haven't experienced.
That's what you're saying.
>> No, I'm not saying that. That still all
fits under sympathy. By the way, you can
see they're in suffering. So you feel
sympathy for them. You don't feel
empathy. If you've never experience it,
how are you in that feeling with them?
>> Yes. Okay. So, so let me explain again.
So like sympathy is just having concern.
Like you see a a beggar on the street,
you're like, "Oh, I feel so bad for you
and all stuff." But you're not putting
yourself in that situation. You're
saying, "Oh, I feel bad. You give him
some money." being actual empathetic who
go oh [__] like this dude like has no
house all this kind of [__] but I know a
guy that has a job I can get a job
that's
>> I put myself in that situation where I
was homeless what would I do if I was
homeless you just said I call him mate
both of those things you just said are
sympathy neither one of those is empathy
>> both of the examples you just gave
>> okay so so what so give me an example of
empathy for you then
>> I don't think empathy is a real thing I
think people have a sympathetic response
and then they claim
that they're in the emotion of that
person and it's not real. You feel
>> so yeah. No, no. In that example, like
what would like the the quotequote true
empathy be? I there isn't an empathy.
It's literally people doing sympathy and
then claiming it's empathy because they
can feel what the person's feeling. But
they cannot do that. They can only have
an approximation which makes it not
true.
It can't be A and not A. It's not the
same. What are they doing with the
empathy?
>> What are you talking about with empathy?
They're having
empathy. They got one sec. They got an
approximation. So, they've done some
mental work in their head.
>> What is that mental work?
>> Them trying to approximate how that
other person feels, which is sympathy.
>> Using empathy.
>> No, that's sympathy. Again, that's still
sympathy.
You're
read it again. What is the definition of
sympathy? Because they're the same.
There's no difference except for in the
case of empathy, they believe that they
can feel what that person's feeling.
>> They cannot they're not in it.
>> Sympathy is the feeling of sincere
concern for someone who's experiencing
something difficult or painful. Empathy
is the action of understanding, being
aware of, being sensitive to, and
vicariously experiencing the feelings,
thoughts, and experience of another.
So, sympathy is just feeling bad for
someone that you see in a bad situation.
Empathy is putting yourself into that
bad situation.
And that is useful for society of
building societies cuz you can then put
yourself in a situation, the fact
despite the fact you've never been in
that situation, and then actually
develop
stuff from that. You're just saying it's
imaginary. That's all you're saying to
me right now. You're saying it's
sympathy with an imagination,
which is not real.
>> We say the same, we could say the same
thing about mathematics or like any
calculations or algorithms. It's it's
imaginary.
You can't feel other people's emotions.
You just admitted you can give a rough
approximation. You can give an
approximation of how you have felt
yourself in situations, not what they
are actually feeling. Yes or no?
>> So hypotheticals are [__]
>> Can you feel what other people are
feeling while they're feeling it at the
same exact way that they're feeling it?
Yes or no?
>> The same exact way.
>> Like somebody's mom dies and your mom
died at some point in your life. uh do
you have all their same feelings and you
know exactly how they're feeling or do
you have some rough approximation of how
they feel?
>> You you you could apply empathy and be
like well yeah I was I was actually in
that situation before and be like yeah
that's
>> how do you apply empathy? How do you
apply empathy?
>> You put yourself in that situation
>> you imagine that situation imagination
and you basically play it out in your
head. Yeah.
>> So it's not real.
So thoughts aren't real.
>> I didn't say thoughts aren't real.
You're imagining.
>> You're mind reading. You're imagining.
You know how they feel.
>> Mhm.
>> And
somehow same way architects,
new concepts, imagine new theirs comes
out being true. But you could say that
you're having empathy and be completely
wrong about all of it.
>> But you're having empathy
>> and that makes it true to you. Even if
it's wrong. Even if you're completely
false.
>> Yeah.
>> Like being able to
>> So guess work is a good way to build a
society is what you're saying. Guess
work.
>> I can I can imagine that I feel the way
other people feel and because I can
imagine it then I can build a structured
society off of that.
>> Yeah. You put yourself in that position.
So, for example, if you are like the
supreme dictator and all the stuff to be
a good leader, you'd want to put
yourself in the the same shoes as like
your poorest citizen, your weakest link.
And that's going to give you
understanding of all the problems that
they will have and to be able to address
those problems. And this is where I talk
about this whole force argument versus
seduction. that if I can if I know what
you uh if I know what's in your head, if
I can read your mind, if I can
experience your experiences as if I was
you, then I can design like laws and
codes and all this kind of stuff that
will like literally seduce you to stay
in the society rather than trying to
force you by the or the weapon or the
sword.
You can imagine you can't actually
be that person or feel what they're
feeling or think what they're feeling.
>> I never said like empathy is not being
the person.
>> It's understanding the person.
>> You keep saying you put yourself in it.
You put yourself in it.
>> And then I asked you what does that
mean? You say you imagine.
>> No, I I No, no. I I say I put I put
myself in that position. How?
>> Through imagination.
>> Okay. So you're imagining that you're in
the same position as them even though
you're
>> same way a hypothetical is imagining
the same way in a hypothetical you
imagine
>> and where's the situation
>> like you imagine for example the
breakfast question you imagine if you
didn't have breakfast how would you feel
>> great that's me imagining me
>> that's imagination
>> that's me imagining me based on
experiences I've already had all still
singular there's no shared experience
there
So you take the outcome that this
person's had and you put me in that
outcome. How would me feel? That's
empathy.
>> That is That is so stupid. I don't even
know.
I You're saying because you know how
something could feel
that you can feel exactly what other
people are feeling
>> and then you're going to build a
structured society off of that.
No, what I'm pointing to is the skill of
actually putting yourself in a
situation.
>> I'm saying
>> not thinking that you are that person,
but just putting yourself in that
situation.
>> You can't.
>> If I didn't have breakfast morning, how
would I feel if I was a slave and not
the king? How would I feel?
>> And how many people have you run across,
Diaak, that can't actually answer
hypotheticals?
>> Significant amount. Yeah. So,
>> yeah. And that's
>> also there's also a significant amount
of people who can't read or write. That
doesn't mean that read and writing is a
useless skill.
>> Well, there's a big difference between
uh practical skills in the world and
emotional states, right?
>> Yeah. And empathy is a skill.
>> Would you would you prefer empathy to
build your society or rationale?
>> Uh both are one and the same.
>> They're not one and the same. Not at
all. from what you're saying.
Imagination
>> is a baseline within empathy.
>> You're not using imagination to decide
if something's rational or not.
You're not using your own your own
imagination like I imagine this is how
it feels. Somebody else is feeling
and that's somehow rational.
>> Yeah. Like you can for example say that
like oh uh this dude's uh this wife's uh
this dude's wife cheated on him all
stuff like I would imagine that I'd be
happy about a certain situation like
that like this whole thing of like would
you rather reason versus empathy you
need re one sec you need reason in order
to to do empathy.
>> No that's
>> because otherwise it wouldn't be
reasonable. That's exactly that's
exactly the reason it won't work because
people are going to have different reads
on what is and that imagining is a
fundamental breakdown.
You can't actually have
>> no you can apply objective situations to
it. So yeah, so for example like with
the the whole illegal immigration like
the the feminists and all and the
lefties would like don't you have
empathy for the the illegal uh citizens,
the non- USins and all stuff. My counter
is like no I do have empathy for them. I
actually do understand them and when
they're chanting death to America,
>> that's me understanding their position
and the fact that they don't want to
actually come over here and actually
produce. They want to destroy. So in
terms of like my my counter Yeah. Yeah.
But in terms of my counter to to that
situation, I would say no, I actually do
understand them. You're the one that
doesn't have empathy for them.
>> You don't understand their position. You
don't understand how they're feeling.
>> But this is
>> the mere fact that you're you're you're
having one sec. the mere fact you can
then say is okay you have all this
empathy and all this uh understanding
for the the illegal immigration what
about your your fellow countrymen and
then you'll watch how they don't have
any empathy or they don't have any um
pause or uh reserve towards his own
countrymen
>> how do you know
>> cuz in the case of the feminist we can
compare you have all these standards and
all these requests for women but then
when it comes to men and like we can
give like for example like alimony
payment is is one of them you you fight
so hard tooth to nail uh for abortion,
but you don't fight uh uh nearly as hard
for, for example, like alimony payments
and all this kind of stuff. So, like
that's a severe uh uh
>> So, empathy has to be equal across the
board all the time.
>> It's not it's not
>> No, what I'm saying is I'm pointing out
where it's like they're they're
employing empathy to a severe degree for
the illegal immigrants, but they're not
applying the the empathy for their own
fellow countrymen. That's where you
could say that this is imbalanced. And
then that's one way you can judge in
terms of imagination. It's not just
purely imagination
objectively weighing it against other
other uh the word
>> other you can take rationality and
sympathy and function and build
something. You cannot do that if you're
using what you're claiming to be empathy
because there's no metric for people to
hold to on on a on a on a scale.
Sympathy is I feel this thing knowing I
feel it, right? And I color the world
based on my perception and I act in the
world based on my perception. So too
does the person I think I'm feeling
empathy for. And so what happens is your
claim that it would be good for building
a society is fractured because
everyone's going to have a completely
different view of what that is. And then
if I start running around saying that I
can imagine how people feel.
>> So if you if you if I put a story where
some dude's wife cheated on him that
like every single dude is going to have
a completely different reaction to that
or do you think they'll all be like
>> there's plenty that will have different
>> there's plenty enough that we'll have
different that it is still in congruent.
You can't build on that.
>> So we can't say that a wife beating on a
husband like that would still
disloyalty. No, that would still be
sympathy because you're not feeling it
with them.
>> How's that? Because it seems like you're
facing it. It seems like you're saying
>> feel it in it.
>> One second. You're saying that sympathy
is useful for society, building society,
>> correct?
>> I'm saying a small level of sympathy.
>> Sympathy. So sympathy is useful for
building society, but empathy, which
you're kind of saying is just sympathy,
is not useful.
>> No, I'm saying it is. by saying that
people who claim empathy is a thing and
then use it are saying when they
describe it, they're describing sympathy
plus imagination and delusion.
>> Yeah. Yeah. But you're still saying that
it's still useless society.
I'm saying the sympathy is I'm saying
the empathy is a delusional tack on to
sympathy and it makes it not reasonable
and it makes it
>> in group preferencing and it makes it
destructive. And we've seen that all
across human history whenever it's used
it's utilized in that way. And the
reason it's utilized the hypotheticals
is because we all have a
>> a perception of the world. So you're
going to color the world based on your
perception and then you're going to
claim empathy and want people to see it
your way
>> which is always going to
>> hypothetical is that sympathy
>> for the hypotheticals that's sympathy.
Correct.
>> I'm saying the base part is sympathy.
I'm not saying empathy is sympathy. I'm
saying
>> I'm not saying that. I'm saying sympathy
is one person saying from the outside I
can observe that that person's going
through something. Empathy is making a
claim that I can see somebody's going
through something and I can feel what
they're feeling
>> and you can't do that thing.
>> Yeah. So again, so so empathy and
sympathy like your distinction is that
like I I'm claiming that I have the
exact feelings of that person. That's
what you think it is.
>> That's because that's the way empathy is
used in the modern era. People who claim
empathy are claiming they can feel what
that person is feeling.
Yeah. So again, like just because
they're feeling an approximation of
anger doesn't mean they're actually
feeling the same thing.
>> Just because someone claims that they
know logic and then they can't actually
describe what logic is or give the three
laws of logic doesn't mean that logic
doesn't exist.
>> Correct.
>> Correct. But you can demonstrate.
>> So in terms of Yeah. So getting back
into this just because there are people
>> can you demonstrate?
>> Yeah. But just because there's people
who run around and say, "Oh, like like
you have to do this because of empty."
And they start misusing empathy or they
start misusing logic doesn't mean it
doesn't actually exist. And as I uh
stated like empathy is just being able
to understand and put yourself in that
position. Meaning stuff like
hypotheticals that's empathy. So in
terms of like uh relating it back to uh
the the main thing of like building
society on like you seem to admit that
like reason is something that we should
build on. Empathy is an extension of
reason.
>> Okay. So again, you've now made a claim
again that co cognitive guesswork
is empathy and that society can be built
on cog cognitive guesswork about
emotions.
>> Yeah. So if I told you
>> for just for the sake of progress of the
debate here like I just want to clarify
like are we debating empathy as like
emotional mind readading or empathy as
perspective taking? Because if we're
debating different things, you guys are
kind of just talking.
>> Even if we take it as perspective
taking, right? Even if we take it to
that point, you have not lived the life
of that person. And so you can claim you
can see it from their perspective. You
cannot. You are not that person. You do
not have their life experiences. You
have their brain chemistry.
>> This is the thing like the whole like
you live their life. You're not that
person. I get that you're not that
person. But to put yourself in that
position that that person was in.
>> Yeah. But you that still would gain you
very little in the long run because you
don't even have the perspective. You
only have your guess of what the
perspective is, what you think.
>> So I can I can give situations like your
wife cheating on you like do you not
think that like most men would be able
to apply empathy to that situation and
feel for example disloyalty?
>> They would have sympathy. they would
know that that
>> yeah so in but like what what I'm trying
to get to is you're you're what you're
calling sympathy is actually empathy but
I can even grant that and say is that
that what you just call sympathy is that
useful for building society
>> what I'm
>> Is that
building society what I say means what
you want it to mean and then it doesn't
>> I'm just saying you're the one you're
the one that claimed that that was
sympathy right is that useful for
building so that somebody's going
through something is sympathy
No. Understanding the position that
they're in.
>> Understanding the position that they're
in.
>> That that literally what you're saying
is not just what empathy is.
>> I'm I'm not I'm not I'm I'm not arguing
is is that empathy or is that I'm just
saying that you called what I was just
describing sympathy. Being able to put
yourself in someone else's position. For
example, like men being able to
understand of another man's wife
cheating on them.
>> They'll be able to say I could put
myself in that position. I could say
that. Yeah. I feel a lot of like
disloyalty.
>> Put yourself in that position. You
cannot put yourself in that position.
One sec. All of a sudden feel betrayal.
Betrayed. One sec. One sec. You said no
that's not empathy. That's just
sympathy. They're just feeling sympathy
that person. I'm like okay. But is that
feeling sympathy for that person
situation is that useful for building
society?
Maybe.
>> Maybe it could be completely detrimental
to the society too. So, so yeah, I was
going to say, so since definitions here
are are contested,
uh, let's let's assume both are on the
table and let's test both models against
like real world outcomes and like we can
kind of move forward to the the prompt
here. So like let's assume both of your
definitions are on the table and find
out if uh it's better or not for
society.
Okay. Well, I'll go with my original
opening for for empathy, right? When
empathy was being used or or claimed to
be used during the the
suffrage movement for instance, they
wanted all the men in the in the nation
and in the in the world to to feel with
them what it was to be victimized by the
patriarchy.
My question to you is how can the men
outside of the gender outside of or
outside of the sex outside of the whole
situation
even begin to approximate
that feeling that they're trying to tell
them to feel with them and then make the
choice
to take steps to change it because they
felt that.
>> Yeah. So, in terms of like how how like
that can be be used to build into
society and all that, well, like first
of all, as a man, you need to be
empathetic to towards the women and
understand that they're the ones that
been fed a a whole bunch of [__] Um cuz
like for example, like why like why
would you want to work 8 hours a day, 40
hours a week for the rest of your life
and be an independent woman rather than
actually build a family which is
literally women's superpower. They
literally deny them their own
superpower. So there's to apply
empiration to realize that with a lot of
these women that are saying these
feminist [__] they themselves have been
fooled. They're they're following a lie.
So that's number one. The number two is
to point out that the lack of empathy
that feminists have towards men. That's
another way how we can use empathy
against women. This is the the the whole
kind of like dynamic that we see play
out where the left starts to do
something and then the rightwing says,
"Well, if they're doing that, that means
that's bad and we shouldn't do that." So
the left always talks about empathy,
which means empathy is bad. We should
never be empathetic. That is a losing
move. By being able to apply empathy
correctly, you can actually outmaster
the feminists. And how they're basically
doing this whole thing of like what
Abe's trying to do is propaganda and all
this kind of stuff. That is a phenomenon
in and of itself. But like the the
empathy he's now saying is well they're
using they're weaponizing empathy. But
hang on a sec. I thought the empathy
wasn't an actual thing. That's where I'm
like confused here where you're
literally a chunk of my mindet.
>> No, it's literally a chunk of my point.
A chunk of my point is we as humans have
sympathetic responses. Those sympathetic
responses allow us to recognize patterns
and see something's going on with them
and say,
"Oh, that sucks for them. That would
probably suck." Then we can take some
rational respons.
>> What are you talking about?
>> In sympathy. You don't need to put
yourself in a situation.
>> You don't have to be in a situation to
see that something sucks.
>> Yeah, but you're not saying that like oh
like we like we would do something or we
like nothing like that. Like you're
saying that the sympathy okay bad thing
happened. Yeah, I feel sorry for you.
But the empathy is the extra step of
actually putting yourself in that
position. You know what I mean? Because
like for example like when you're when
you're when you're in a government
>> so you're saying taking one feel
sympathy is empathy.
>> Yeah. So you're in the government and
we're passing let's say the Green New
Deal or something like that. And we know
that if if we if we put in this uh uh
these tax laws and all this kind of [__]
for the the energy the energy is going
to dip in the country. Meaning that old
people uh during the winter aren't going
to be able to afford the the their homes
which means we're going to have more uh
mortalities in terms of society. are
like without empathy you'd be like well
it's gonna increase our profits why why
not just increase the profits
>> so no one can act out of sympathy
>> is what you're saying you're trying to
say that
>> I know
>> why is there no sympathy
>> because in the current uh uh example
that I given you're the you're the dude
that's passing the green new deal
>> what are you talking about you can plot
out
>> meaning yeah the effects of so basically
you pass a policy that's going to
negatively negatively affect a group of
people in the society to the point where
they might actually die
>> and you know that
>> but we'll make we're going to make more
profit.
>> Why would we not do that as a society?
>> That's I don't know how you keep
justifying
a sympathetic response to something that
is coming or could happen or is
happening
as as empathy. What is needed beyond the
sympathetic response? You have a
sympathetic response and you take an
action.
You don't have to put yourself in their
shoes to know that their suffering will
>> Let me clarify.
>> You've been you've been like sitting
here kind of going like sympathyy's
useless, empathy is useless. Like the
the the feminist just weaponized that
[__] against us uh with the whole like
feminist movement like for suffrage.
They basically they basically plug on
our emotional heartstrings. And I said,
if that's useless, if all that whole
thing of like the the emotional uh
string plucking is useless when it comes
to like the government deciding, well,
this group of people might be affected,
they might actually die from this, but
we'll make twice the amount of profit.
Why would the government ever choose to
not do that?
Say that again.
In the example where the government
potentially could like negatively affect
a a small group or portion of society in
exchange for massive profits, why would
the government ever not do that? Why
would they not just always go for the
profits?
>> Because they have a duty to the people
and the people will try to over destroy
the government for
>> army. When you say duty to the people,
what does that mean?
>> Means the government. Well, at least
here the government for the people by
the people. Like they have sworn duties
when they enter office to
>> Yeah.
>> protect and defend the constitution.
>> If we just
if we let the if we let the old people
die, then everyone else in the country
would be twice as well off, twice the
amount of wealth.
>> Then it would still be
uh purposefully ending the lives of
people, which again the government ought
not. and the lives of its own people
outside of justified reasoning. Like it
seems like you're seeing you're hopping
around all the way to avoid the
government saying it's like well
>> the government have to understand that
like from these people's perspective
you're basically saying you guys are not
useful to the country anymore so we
don't care about you. That's how like
you apply.
>> This is a this is a straight line. Like
they don't need to have empathy because
one, it's illegal to do some of those
things already.
And
you don't do harm if you don't have to
do harm. And you don't need empathy to
know that it's harm.
But why do you care about harming these
people?
That's what I'm that that's what the
whole discussion has been about. Abe,
>> it hasn't been.
>> It's not me. So why the [__] do I care
if I harm someone else?
>> That would that's Dude, that still falls
under a sympathetic response.
>> How's that sympathetic?
>> If you have ever experienced hardship of
any kind,
you can say,
>> "Oh, so I'm putting myself in the
situation, am I?"
You're asking me as a person to make a
judgment call about other people.
>> Yeah.
>> That's exactly what you have to do. You
have to say that probably sucks
or I wouldn't want to die.
>> Yeah. So, you put yourself in a
situation say, "Well, I wouldn't want to
die, so I'm pretty sure those people
wouldn't want to die." That doesn't seem
like a lot of imagination we just
applied to situations. Seems like we
applied a bit of reason and logic
situation.
>> Some emotional attachment. I don't you
like there's a
>> Oh, so that's what I was saying. Abe,
that's what I've been trying to say the
whole time. That empathy is not some
sort of emotional response. This is
actual reason and logic.
>> That's not what you were saying.
>> You're saying imagination.
You imagine how they are feeling.
>> That's what you've just done.
>> No. Said, "Well, I would have imagined
if I like any hardship I
>> if I I can't know what they feel."
>> Yes. But you can apply, you can put
yourself in a situation and assess how
you would feel.
>> How would empathy?
>> No.
>> Yeah, that's called empathy.
>> There's no sharing in that then.
>> How is no sharing?
>> You're putting yourself You just One
sec, Abe. You just said I don't know
what they know. Fair enough. But you can
put yourself in the situation that
they're in and then you'll know.
>> My whole point this whole time was to be
that you can have a sympathetic response
and take rational action based on
sympathetic response. You do not need
to.
>> So we can take a rational response based
on emotions.
>> Be able to walk a mile in their shoes or
any of these things. Is
>> sympathy emotional is not emotional. Now
Abe
>> you said that based on this emotional
response we can have a rational
>> like we can get rationality from
emotional responses.
>> Yes. But you don't have to feel what
they feel in order to have a rational
response. You just have to know that
something is wrong
>> in in my definition is a jump outside
for no reason.
>> But in none of my definitions am I
saying that you have to make sure you
feel exactly the way that they feel all
is going to shoot. We just went uh went
over this where you said you would have
put yourself in in in the position of
that group of people and say well I
don't want to die and then from that you
would have extracted out that maybe they
feel like they don't want to die. Maybe
we shouldn't do this. It's it's it's
very strange to me because it's almost
like you're trying to claim like
emperorship over what empathy is
according to you. Like most people will
say they can we get can we get a trophy
dodgeball champion of 2026.
>> What are you talk What did I dodge?
>> Dodge and dodge.
>> What did I do?
>> This whole example where you Yeah.
You've just made the blunder where it's
like you were say in that situation I
would put myself in the group of the the
that group and say I don't want to die
which is why the government would then
say I don't think you should do this
which is you applying the situation and
then saying that empathy is woowoo makes
no sense abe
>> I'm saying you are conflating you're
making an equivalency fallacy between
>> sympathy and empathy and then you're
calling one
>> I'm
>> with imagination Yeah,
>> that can be flawed.
>> How is it equivocation when I'm saying
they're two distinct things and you're
saying that they're the same thing?
>> No, I've never called yourself out for
equivocation.
>> No, I've never claimed the dude. I've
never claimed even in my opening, which
I don't know if you even listened to
because you've literally
kept You keep freaking attributing
things to me that are not in my
argument. I said people are using
sympathy, adding a bunch of imagination
that's false and deluded on top of it
and calling it empathy in the world we
live in and you're arguing for that
thing.
>> Yeah. And then when you said that in the
situation I I gave the example I gave
where there's a group of population that
could be potentially wiped off with this
policy, why wouldn't the government do
that if it increases the wealth by two
times? You said, well, they could put in
position and say, I don't want to die. I
could put myself in that position and
say I don't want to die which is why I
wouldn't want to do it which is applying
empty the situation. None of this fugazi
none of this imagination this was like
uh this just happened abe
that's the way that you're lining this
out is is disjointed from what we're
even talking about in the first place.
You're going to make a a big grand
hypothetical about the government doing
some
>> mass unaliving of populace. And the
reason we don't do that, which by the
way, we go to war all the time.
Evidently,
>> you said I'd put myself in the
situation. I wouldn't want to die. Those
were your words, correct?
>> No, I did not say I'd put myself in that
situation.
>> So, you never said I would I wouldn't
want to die. You never say I would die.
>> I wouldn't want to die.
>> Yeah. So, why are you putting yourself
in that situation? You're putting your
yourself in the situation of the group
that's going to get wiped out by the
government. You said, "Well, I wouldn't
want to die."
>> You only have your perspective,
>> Terak. You only have your perspective.
>> You cannot have their perspective.
>> But you can Yeah. But you can apply
yourself in certain situations. Correct.
>> You can. Yes. As an individual, you can.
>> Yeah. Yeah. That's called empathy.
That's not what What do you I don't
Dude, you just keep saying that over and
over and over again, but you're not
showing it. You're not actually
demonstrating how it's different. You're
just having it. No,
>> I got you to demonstrate it.
>> No, you are not showing the difference
between a sympathetic response and what
you are calling empathy. You're not
showing a difference. You never have.
>> And then you keep claiming that they're
so different.
>> I just Yeah, I I just did. You know what
I mean? Like having like concern for a
group of people. You don't know how they
got there. You don't know anything about
it, but you can still have concern. You
can still feel sorry for them, etc.,
etc. Empathy is actually putting
yourself in a situation which you just
did. Abe,
>> you just did this.
>> It's not that. No, I am saying what you
are describing again.
>> A world is calling empathy.
>> Yeah. I gave you the example where the
group of the that there's a group of the
population that potentially we can wipe
out and we'll double the wealth. And you
said I I I asked you why wouldn't the
government just take the double wealth
and just wipe out the group of people?
And you said
>> I said duty to the people through the
law because of
>> Yeah. And then and then you said well I
wouldn't want to die. Why are you
putting yourself in that situation? Abe
>> that's not okay. So selfishness is
empathetic. That's what you're saying.
You're saying the epitome of of empathy
is selfishness. And that's so good for
society because I know what I want.
>> No.
>> Well, no.
>> Because if the government in in in that
situation, if the government was being
selfish, they wouldn't they wouldn't put
themselves in the group of people about
to wipe out.
>> They just say we're going to be twice as
wealthy on the ground. The people on the
ground.
>> No, no. I I've just addressed the in the
example. If it was just pure selfishness
and the government wouldn't even think
about the group they're wip It just be
Yeah.
person who's just making a choice.
>> Okay. The people that run the government
would just be selfish and say everyone
everyone else is going to be twice as
wealthy.
>> Just makes choices.
>> Yeah. So, everyone in the government is
going to be like, "We're selfish. We're
going to be twice as wealthy. We don't
need to think about this other group of
people. We don't we don't care about
them. We double up the wealth." Whereas
the empathetic person just like you
would have said, "Well, I don't want to
die." So, then they wouldn't have done
it. So, in terms of like empathy being a
useful tool, we've just demonstrated
live in action.
>> That's I don't think that that is the
congruent argument. I don't think that
the only reason they're not going to do
this thing is because they don't want to
die.
>> Never said it was the only reason. I
just demonstrated why empathy is a
useful tool in society,
>> but not for shaping and developing
structured society.
And I would still argue, even on that
note, I would still argue that you could
do all of the things you say
a structured and developed society would
be like, "Yeah, we're killing off
grandpa and grandma because we want to
get twice as wealthy."
>> Say it again. Why do you keep using
>> you're saying that like you're you made
the claim that like in a structured and
developed society and stuff and it's
like in the example that I'm giving you
would say that the society that's
willing to to wipe off the old people
just to get twice as wealthy they're
more barbaric than the sophisticated
society that be like no let's actually
look after our wisdom and our elder
>> is that a better over society
>> it's clearly a better society because as
you demonstrated by applying empathy
situation you said well I wouldn't want
to die Those were your words, Abe. You
were applying empathy in the situation.
You might try to run away from it now,
but like we got it in 4K.
>> No, I'm using a sympathetic response
again at least 1080p using equate
equitative reasoning that doesn't exist.
Like you're linking things that don't
you done that.
>> You just done that. You said I wouldn't
want to die. Why would you say that in
the example? because I'm having a
sympathetic response to knowing that
death isn't preferable.
Yeah, but this is a hypothetical group.
>> Yeah, this is unreal. So why why what
were you doing then? Why are you doing
this? What why would you be apply
sympathy to an example that these people
don't even
>> you ask me a cognitive question about a
why would a person react a way
>> and all it takes is a sympathetic Why
would the government give a reaction the
government just
you put yourself in the position of the
group that could potentially be wiped
out?
>> That is empathy, sir.
And that is again useful to society
because we just uh went through the
policy. And then from there, even if you
claim, well, that's just sympathy, you
still have to bite the bullet and say,
well, that is useful to society. I
already made the claim that sympathy,
tempered sympathy with rationale is good
for society. I did make the claim that
empathy, which is the extrapolated
imagining that you can be in the
situation even if it's impossible to do
so.
>> It's you're using one situation, Jerry,
one
>> you applied empathy,
>> a million things. You're you can claim
that all day long. That's fine. But you
could put yourself in situations and be
wrong about all kinds of things which we
have seen repeatedly in history and
people claim that that is uh uh empathy
even though like you've said the the
women's movements used as a weapon
against the rest of society which caused
fractionation. You could see it in the
communist movement. You can see it in
the the freaking socialist movements.
All of these movements utilized
emotional m manipulation of the
sympathetic response of human beings and
called it empathy and led them astray
which caused collapse and decay and
destruction. And everywhere that we use
what they call empathy,
they have higher crime rate because of
it. They allow more [__] to happen
because they wouldn't want to be in that
situation and they can imagine how it
would be in that situation. So in all of
those ways that's not good for society.
Instead you should have a measure
measurable reasonable rational response
as your basis. If we're saying that this
thing they're calling empathy is good
for shaping a society, I would say no
in that case because everywhere we look
where it's being employed, things are
getting worse.
>> Yeah. So in in in terms of like like
basically to to draw us back to it, you
literally just applied empathy in the
situation that I gave where the the
government has a choice whether to
double the wealth or to to to wipe out
the the elderly. And you in that
situation actually applied the empathy
when we're talking about like with the
the feminist kind of [__] This is a
selective empathy. This is empathy just
for the women and maxing out as much for
the women and all this kind of stuff.
>> If empathy exists,
>> you can
you can empathy exist. All empathy is
selective and so
>> you can you can weaponize empathy by
only showing half the picture for
example. You know what I mean? That's
how you can weaponize it. And you can uh
you can basically use it as a tool to
manipulate and all this kind of [__]
And I'm not denying any of that. But
when we uh when we turn to like actual
like western society and all this stuff,
there's a reason why they've been using
empathy and trying to weaponize empathy
against us is because it's a higher
intellectual principle. for example,
you're not able to use empathy uh in
Muslim societies. Why? Because they're
proud of the fact that they're low IQ
societies. You know what I mean? That's
a a bastion for Islam apparently. You
know what I mean? What separates Islam
from the West is the fact that the
Western societies have empathy. And as
Abe is is demonstrating, this is being
able to be used. So, it's not a fugazi.
They're able to use this to to try and
cause the the downfall of the West. But,
as I was pointing out, this is because
they've only been given half the
picture. That's how propaganda works.
They give you half the picture, half
truths, and they get you to to do
atrocities, all this kind of [__] But
if you apply empathy to the full
situation, just what like a lot of the
um like the the counter force you're
seeing in culture is now doing where
they're actually starting to apply
empathy to men and how can you justify
this for men and and trying to to to
understand the picture of the plight of
men of what they're facing in modern day
that is empathy and all that can be used
to negate the current stuff that Abee's
saying. So in terms of the like empathy
being negative for society like the fact
that we can use empathy as a solution to
the plight that we currently see. I
don't see how that's a downturn or a
negative for society.
I just I don't understand how a claim
can be made that you can share feelings
that you can't know are happening and
then say that my sympathetic response
and my imagining of the emotions that
they are feeling makes them true even if
they are not verifiable or knowable or
true. And then I show you that this can
be used repeatedly for all these issues
which it has been even to the point of
the whole government of the country in a
destructive manner
and everywhere where government is using
them whether it's the justice system
whether it's the the uh
the welfare programs all of these things
have gotten out of control because of an
empathetic
look at things rather than just having a
sympathetic response and then making
value judgments which is a better metric
for how you would structure a society
not saying because I know this would be
terrible and I wouldn't like it if I had
this happen to me not knowing whether or
not their emotions are what you believe
they they are you make policies based on
that.
>> Yeah. So, so like for example, in terms
of like when you're saying like, "Oh,
that's a sympathetic response." You're
basically saying they're responding with
emotion. You know what I mean? Something
bad happens and maybe the women are
crying kind of thing.
>> But in terms of empathy, the difference
is that you're actually understanding
their position and you could actually
give them advice and say, "Listen, like
this might seem [__] at the moment, but
actually this will benefit you in in in
the long run. I can give an example
where like I conceded the debate against
uh Jim Bob at the time. It was like it
was it was a tough loss, all this kind
of [__] But like I said, through time
and experience, I was able to say, "No,
it's actually a better thing cuz it's
making me better as a as a debater." If
you have the empathy, you can actually
explain that in terms of position rather
than just giving that sympathetic
response that he said where you just
join in and say, "Oh my god, ain't so
sad. Here's the tissues." All this kind
of [__] rather than actually giving
advice.
>> When you're talking about like giving
advice, you have to say it's like when
you're talking about when you're talking
about like giving advice that will
actually help the individual, you have
to be able to put yourself in that
position and say, "This is how I'd move
given this thing." You know what I mean?
So like in terms of like advice going
forward, that's clearly an empathetic
response rather than just a sympa
sympathetic response which would just be
join in on whatever emotion they're
feeling. They're feeling sad.
Like people can have a the actual
psychological effect of the sympathetic
response due to uh pattern recognition
or mirror neurons which is not empathy
and saying because that's bad
>> because that's bad
>> and I
think I can help. I give them advice.
You don't need to take
>> Yeah. But how can you give advice to
putting yourself
>> How can you give advice if you can't put
yourself in that position?
>> People do it all the time.
>> Oh, so they can't be empathetic. Then
>> you just claimed that No, no, no. Wait a
second, Gabe. You just claimed that it's
impossible to to feel the exact same
feelings someone else. And now you just
claim that people do it all the time.
They put themselves in those positions
all the time.
>> Why do you keep trying to like railroad
what I'm not saying? Because on the one
hand you're saying that empathy is a
fugazi. It doesn't exist whatsoever. But
then empathy is also sympathy.
>> Again you're saying it doesn't exist but
then it's also
>> you are the one conflating not me. I'm
saying
people have a sympathetic response. It
is a a verified
>> an emotional response
>> that we
>> an emotional response.
>> Us.
>> Why do you keep saying an emotional
response? What does that do?
>> Yeah. So if I'm feeling sympathetic with
someone, I'm going to mirror their
emotions. If I'm gonna feel empathetic
for someone, you don't have to mirror
their emotions. You have to know that
they're having emotions. The sympathetic
response is the knowledge of the thing
that's happened.
>> Okay. Yeah. And then you see someone cry
and then you you you maybe hand them
tissues or you you join in crying or
that's terrible, bro. All this kind of
[__] You know what I mean?
>> An empathetic response being able to
understand the story and say, "Yo, bro.
I know you might be feeling [__] right
now, but if you do X, Y, and Z, you can
actually get yourself back on your feet
and you you actually change. means
you're actually going in with a with a
different emotional vibe. You're not
going in to hand them a tissue. You're
going to hand up.
>> Show me where you get that based on
what? How can you not how can you say
that it's not the thing while you're
dictating that that thing is happening?
>> You keep doing this over and over.
>> So, I'm saying the sympathy is the
emotional response like handing them the
tissue or like crying with them.
>> That's something by the way. Empathy is
being able to pick them up and give them
advice.
That's the literally what you're saying
is they can give them tissue if they
have sympathy but they can't give advice
and if they have empathy they'll give
the tissue and they'll give advice.
>> What I'm saying is after the thing is
what I'm saying is sympathy is just the
emotional uh aspect to it. The empathy
is actually the rational.
>> No, because you can't give the advice.
Yeah, because you can't give the advice
unless you put yourself in that
position. Where are you getting that
from?
Because in order to be able
in order to be able to give the advice,
you must first put yourself in that
position and then logically or
rationally go through all the positions
or all the options that the person has.
this I again I still don't there's no
linkage for what you're saying like I
don't there's no
>> yeah
sympathy is the emotional response where
think of like a woman joining in on
crying or handing the other woman is
tissue stuff that's empathy is being
able to dig out piece of information
what's going on bro what happened why
you crying et like what led into this
what led to that and all this stuff and
then the empathetic response would be
here's what you should do there's no
such thing as an empathetic response
like you are just making [__] up and
then calling it a thing just like I'm
actually saying
a sympathetic.
>> So there's no difference in what I just
described there. Are you saying there's
no difference in what I just described?
>> You say that I did not say what you are
saying. You keep trying to attribute
what you're saying to me and it's
freaking
>> No, you you keep saying that empathy
empathy doesn't exist or it's not real.
And then you say stuff like, uh, well, I
wouldn't want to die. Which implies that
you're being sympathetic,
>> that's knowing that you have the ability
to die and it's something you don't
want. And because you know you don't
want it, you're attributing when you're
talking about them.
>> When you're talking about sympathy,
you're you're talking about like
emotions. When you're talking about
empathy, you're talking about like
advice or like understanding like
intellectual.
>> Show me where that is. Show me where
that comes from.
>> Okay. So in the example that I gave with
sympathy like think of a girl like like
one of your girls like her boyfriend
cheated on her you join in you're crying
with her or your hand on her tissues and
all this stuff that's being sympathetic.
If you're being empathetic you're going
to be like okay what did he do then?
What did he do this? And you're going to
find out all this information say here's
here's where you're going to move from.
>> Where do where in the definition does it
say that you that
>> you take all these steps afterwards?
>> Yeah. Empathy the action of
understanding being aware of being
sensitive to and vicariously
experiencing the feelings thoughts and
experience of another. Okay. So the
action of like understanding being able
to understand the whole situation
whereas sympathy sympathy is just is a
feeling of sincere concern for someone
who's experiencing something difficult
or painful
>> where you know what I mean with sympathy
you don't
have to response that with sympathy with
sympathy you never have to say oh well I
would have done this or I would have
done that
>> you don't that
>> that definition of empathy doesn't
actually
>> abe you just done that
>> you have to do You said I I wouldn't
want to die.
>> All right, listen. That is that is an
hour, but this still seems like we got a
little bit of iron to sharpen here. Um,
so just keeping in mind we got the 30
minute Q&A. Uh, would you both want
another 30 minutes of open floor here?
>> Uh, yeah, I'm good. Between us or just
for the Q&A, I can do
>> for you two for you two to do an like
keep going with this. We're just going
to keep butting heads on the same thing
cuz I don't for some reason I don't I
don't understand how he's not seeing
that you have a response
>> to
>> Well, let me let me try and help this.
Uh, okay.
>> Cuz I think I might see what's going on
and I'm getting a little bit um I was
getting a little confused about what
exactly like you're effectively saying
is it like are you saying like we can't
feel others emotions or we can't know
others emotions or what we call empathy
is just imagination.
What I'm saying is effectively when you
look at what is being attributed as
empathy even in the definition what
you're saying is there's a sympathetic
response and then a complete
guesstimation of what the emotional
state and perspective of that other
person is and then believing it is true
based on your own internal perception
making it unknowable and not true.
>> So like it's just imagination and
projection is what you're saying.
Yes.
>> Okay.
>> Which I don't think is useful to society
at all. And I think people use sympathy
and then attribute a whole bunch of
other stuff on to it and then claim it's
empathy. But there's no true statement
to it cuz you can't know what's outside
of you. You can't actually make the
justification for what is internally
happening to that person or subjectively
happening to that person.
Okay. Um
um I'm trying to think of
and then he was making the claim that
the afteractions are what empathy is.
But nowhere in the definition does it
say anything about afteractions. It just
says that you can understand
>> you understand the position.
>> Okay. So that's why you have to detail
out like all the individual steps and
you're actually like what happened to
you and you're you're listening to the
whole story where sympathetic response.
>> Yeah. Go ahead.
>> Sorry. I was just going to say even in
the case, this is why I was saying if we
were to just assume both definitions are
on the table cuz a lot of this came for
like a um
like it sounded like the uh the
disagreement came to like whether
empathy requires shared feelings or
whether understanding another experience
is enough. And then um so this why I
said if we just keep both on the table
of like it is it is just imagination and
projection. If if empathy is just
imagination and projection would that
still be useless in like in in shaping
society?
>> I think you're building your house on a
foundation of subjective guesswork
basically and I don't think that that is
good for society. I think the
sympathetic response is an internal
selfdriven thing and then you have to
look at what you're feeling through a
rational lens and make a choice. Whereas
if you're saying I'm I have a
sympathetic response and then I think I
know what you're feeling and I'm going
to make choices based on what I think
you're feeling because I think I can
have your same emotions. We can share
the emotions of the thing you're going
through. then I think that that is bunk
because I think you're going to
misattribute things just as often as you
will correctly attribute things when it
comes to your emotional states.
So yes or no is sympathy useful to
society
in small measure. Yes. So it like
sympathy can't be
>> society tempered and reasoned
>> like an irrational sympathy like if I
feel sorry for people because they
didn't get a million dollars that's not
useful
>> because like what you're doing at the
moment you're basically trying to say
that empathy doesn't exist. So like that
whole like understanding elements and
all that kind of stuff that doesn't
actually exist. That's just all
sympathy. Then when I say is sympathy
useful for society, you then tried to
poo poo that and say it's like well no
it has to be like reasonable sympathy.
But then earlier on you were saying that
like sympathy is emotional not
>> let me rational. Let me clarify. What
I'm saying is people exhibit in the real
world, people exhibit sympathy, then
they make up a story in their head of
what that sympathy means in the life and
actions of a different person
and they call that empathy.
They say because I had a sympathetic
response and I believe I know what
>> and sympathetic response.
It's like your initial response or
emotional state in the moment when you
come across somebody else having an
emotional response.
>> Yeah. So, it's just the emotional
response.
>> Well, that's all the brain chemistry.
There's the physical of it, too.
>> Yeah. But it just in that it's just the
emotional response. You see your friend
crying, that's going to trigger an
emotional response. That's the sympathy.
Okay. What about all the understanding
and the information gathering and all
the stuff that you're going to be going
against uh or you're going to be doing
like trying to find out why they're
upset or why they're in this situation?
>> You would still be driven by sympathy at
that point. I don't see.
>> No, no, no. What is that? When when
we're information G and all stuff is
that not understanding, trying to
understand the event.
>> Then that would just be cognitive work
at that point because you care about
that.
>> That was in the definition of empathy.
Is that action of understanding?
>> Care is also in the definition of
sympathy.
>> No, sympathy is a feeling of sincere
concern. So, it is a feeling. It's an
emotion of concern for someone who's
experiencing something painful,
difficult.
What I'm pointing out is sympathy is the
emotional.
>> It's emotional. So you were saying that
like the part of the the quotequote
sympathy that you're you're playing
that's where it's the understanding and
the information gathering and all the
the reasonable things to it. You're
saying that's just sympathy anyways.
>> Yeah. It's just part of your sympathy
for
>> but sympathy is just the emotional
response.
>> It's just the feeling of concern.
>> No, because care is in there. Concern is
care.
If you're feeling concerned, you care
about that person.
>> Yeah. Like that's an emotional response.
>> Need to go a step further. You already
have the care.
>> Yeah. That's the emotional response.
>> Again, so at that point, you're not
sharing in their emotions.
>> Like someone someone could walk up to me
like they're shot and I can take care of
them, but I don't understand why they
got shot. I don't I don't understand
anything about what actually happened.
>> Is the response yours or is the response
theirs?
>> One sec. But when you're talking about
like the empathy like the actual
understanding being able to gather
information from from the person and
then to be able to apply some sort of
advice to the situation that itself is
empathy
>> you're bringing up gather intelligence
you're bringing up give advice all the
>> understanding just means you know it
doesn't mean you have to take actions
ter
then we're back to sympathy just being
an emotional response how like why is
understanding a part of sympathy then
>> it's care for others is in the
definition also of sympathy. My whole
point is you keep tacking all this other
stuff on to empathy.
>> No, I've just read the definitions.
>> Nowhere in there does it say gather
intelligence and give it quick a
question for both of you. Regardless of
the label, do humans imagine what others
feel and use that to guide behavior?
>> Yep.
>> Sure.
>> Okay. So, let's shift to the usefulness
of that.
Is that useful? Ape,
it can be useful.
Yes. Alhamdulillah, we got there.
But it can also be useless.
Is it needed in what you're that's the
case you need to make?
>> I don't think that that's truly the
case.
I think that again
the claim that's being made then is that
if I can imagine what other people would
feel
if I can read their mind, would that be
useful to a government?
>> Yeah, sure. If they could read your mind
that would be useful.
>> So in terms of shaping society
empathetic
>> this this is what we're talking
>> I and I'm
>> in terms of mind control. No no no we we
don't have mind control. Although MK
>> can you read minds would be one thing.
>> Can we read minds or can we predict
behavior based on human patterns?
>> Yes.
No. Which one is it? Do we read their
mind or do we predict based on patterns?
humans have.
>> We can we can predict based on human
patterns. But that whole kind of image
of like being able to understand
everything that you're going through, be
being able to understand your emotional
state, that understanding of other
people, that is useful. Correct.
>> Understanding people is is useful. Yes,
understanding.
>> There we have it. There we have it.
>> You know what I'm saying? We eventually
got there, but but I still don't think
that fits in the brackets of empathy or
how empathy is used in the world we live
in.
>> I still empathy. We're we're not talking
about empathy. Like I said, we gave the
the the was it the the workound where
it's like just that ability to be able
to understand how people are are feeling
and what what drives their behaviors and
all stuff that aspect. Yeah. So that
that is
>> understanding is understanding how to
build a fire and building a fire the
same thing.
>> No.
>> Okay. Is understanding how people might
feel and feeling what they're feeling
the same thing?
>> Yeah. The accuracy of your empathy is
obviously going to be a factor. But the
fact that we're saying that empathy is
useful to society is that act of being
able to understand how other people
move.
>> No. See, that's my issue. My issue is
it's an impossibility. You can think
about how they feel. You cannot feel how
they feel.
>> Mhm.
>> So do you think share their feelings?
>> So yeah. Do you do you think it would be
a uh uh an accurate thing to say that
like
um that the conservative people
generally speaking are against abortion?
>> Generally. Yes. How am I able to do
that? How am I able to predict what like
these conservatives already think?
I don't I still don't see how that fits
into the brackets of empathy. Like I
literally don't see
>> being able to understand another's point
of view.
Like what you're what you were the whole
claim you're sitting back there saying,
look, are we able to predict what people
think? how are we able to control their
minds or predict their minds? It's like
conservatives generally don't want
abortion.
The only way I'm able to do that is
through empathy, true understanding of
their position.
>> Yeah, that's just understanding. Like I
don't understand why we like
>> that's the difference. That's the
difference between empathy and sympathy
>> is the understanding. You don't need
empathy. You just need understanding.
Like what is empathy?
the understanding like that's the I'll
read the definitions again.
Empathy is the action of understanding
being aware of being sensitive to and
vicariously experiencing the feelings
thoughts and experience of another.
Whereas sympathy is a feeling of sincere
concern for someone who's experiencing
something difficult or painful.
What?
This is a a goofy question to me because
what that says
is because humans labeled it this thing
and defined it as this thing
then it's this thing.
That's all you're saying. Like
>> no,
>> they have it because they what we're
saying with that is that when someone is
hooked up Yeah. when someone is hooked
up to all these uh monitors of their
brain wave activity that when they are
claiming to be empathetic they're you
all humans are using that one uh sect of
the brain whereas sociopaths or
psychopaths they never use that part of
the brain which would denote that
they're not they don't have that
function of their brain which means
they're not able to feel empathy
>> and what would they have said uh pre908
they were feeling what would they say
>> when the science wasn't advanced enough
why would they have the knowledge
>> if they had the freaking technology
pre1908 and they did those same tests,
what would they say they were feeling?
>> Sympathy or empathy depend on what what
time of the year it came out and when
they made this delineation. But they
again the the whole point of this a
would say that you're talking about
people one second one second you're
talking about a conspiracy theory that's
over 100 years old uh where society has
has basically made this delineation
between sympathy and empathy and then
from there like 50 years later almost or
40 years later almost
>> then that's when the feminists picked up
on it and then they drove that wedge
even further.
>> I'm not saying a conspiracy. I'm saying
that people
took an idea
>> 198 and expanded on it in ways that
weren't
real or needed to make people feel
way more than was needed in any given
situation. So, like instead of saying,
"I'm sympathetic to this because I know
how hard it is in my life.
I'm going to do this thing." And then
they amped that by creating the term
empathy. And then they pushed it because
it's a useful thing, not there's some
crazy conspiracy. They just got
>> Who are they?
At first it was movements mostly
movements like like feminist movements
like different movements
>> in 1908
>> who knew who noticed that they could get
traction by utilizing terminology. Well
it didn't pick up huge in 1908. It got
coined in 1908 and it got picked up huge
after the world wars. The point would be
yeah but that you took a no that the
point even now no because think about it
Terak think about it now today
and eat it. No, I'm not. Even now, you
have people running around saying
they're empaths.
>> Yeah.
>> They can feel what other people are
feeling. They can walk in a room and
know what everyone's feeling in that
room. And that's all based on the
perspective of empathy being this
ability to tap into the emotional
centers of other people's brains and
feel what they're feeling.
>> Yeah. And there's people who again
cannot read or write does not mean that
reading or writing is a bad thing.
>> What does that have to do with people
saying that they can feel
>> there are the inner workings of other
people?
>> Yeah.
>> But that's generally how people see that
term today.
>> No,
>> from what I've seen.
>> Again, what we're talking about is the
understanding. And even earlier on in
the debate when I gave you the the
example of like there's there's going to
be this group of the population the
elderly that we're just going to that
that's going to end up dying because of
this or we'll double all the wealth. You
then put yourself in the situation of
the elder and saying well I wouldn't
want to die. That's empathy. But then
you're saying also what you're saying is
well that's not actually empathy. What
they've done is that they uh fandangled
the words and now this whole like
understanding part that's actually just
sympathy but this understanding part
that is now the differentiation between
sympathy and empathy.
>> Empathy actually doesn't exist but also
this understanding does exist but this
understanding is sympathy not empathy.
But then it seems like you're trying to
argue against why they they made that
delineation in the first place. Because
the reason why they would one second
reason why they would have made that
delineation is because generally
speaking like women will join in and
like they'll they'll give you the
tissues and give you the tears do the
tears all all this kind of [__]
>> and they'll follow along with the story
and like oh that's terrible all this
[__] but they're not actually trying to
understand. They're just like trying to
comfort you. They just have concern for
you but they they're not actually
understanding the position that you're
in. Whereas a man typically when he
hears this this [__] he's the one that's
like going to do all the understanding
and you're going to have a solution at
the end. That's the main problem between
uh in relationships where like a lot of
women say to to men it's like I just
want you to be sympathetic. I don't want
you to be empathetic.
>> I don't know how many different ways I
can explain delineation but just just
one second just as a piece of advice.
>> You you never want to to have like a
double barrel
>> uh in a debate. You want to make sure
you have that one key thing and you
press down on because now you're in a
difficult position where you're you're
trying to constantly deny what empty is.
>> No, it doesn't matter if it's or not.
Then even if cuz even when I do the
workound and I say well I can grant you
that's still sympathy what would have
been called sympathy back in 1908
>> I can grant you that but that that's
still useful to society which you lose
on the debate on in terms of that end
either anyways what I mean
>> no because it's because everything
you've said is just convolution that's
all it is like humans already have the
ability to understand they already have
mirror neurons which is a sympathetic
response there's no need for something
called empathy that's a thing that is a
natural
response of sympathy that it already is
built into the system. You don't need
empathy. You you have sympathy and
understanding. You don't need empathy.
>> What I've highlighted is the fact that
it's the understanding is the
difference.
Fact that like sympathy is that
emotional response you have like seeing
a friend or family member that's that's
in that that's in a bad state like
you're crying or whatever kind of thing
or is angry whatever. There's being
sympathetic and basically mirroring the
the emotion that you're seeing. But then
the empathy itself is actually like
gathering out the information to
understand the situation that they're in
and then to to be able to give the
advice. There's a clear delineation that
I'm I'm showing here. But then you're
just denying the delineation and then
saying that all the stuff that I'm
saying is basically just sympathy
anyways. But then even if I grant that,
is that useful to society? You said yes.
The
you do that every time. You like try to
steamroll what I said into something
else that is not what I'm saying. I'm
saying sympathy is a natural response of
human beings. It doesn't denote
>> an emotional response
>> further actions
outside of choice.
That choice is going to be based on what
you think and what you perceive.
Empathy is like this autopilot. Somehow
you understand their inner workings and
then
>> did I not say in terms of the
information gather you're going to be
ask them what happens like all this kind
of [__]
>> where seeanding
>> no it says understanding it's in the
definition it means you automatically
understand it doesn't mean you seek to
understand it means understand
>> automatically understand
>> it says it says understand
>> now now is that what you're trying to
say that Mind reading is empathy. But
that's that's not what
>> it's been the whole freaking time.
>> That's what that
set definition. I'll give you
>> the action of understanding, being aware
of, being sensitive to and vicariously
experiencing the feelings and thoughts
and experience of another.
>> So you just there's there's no automatic
mind reading,
>> none of that kind of stuff.
>> So you just understand automatically.
You just understand.
>> No, this is where I say the information
gathering. You don't have to. It says
you understand.
>> It doesn't say you gather the
information. It just says you
understand.
>> Okay. Can Can you understand mathematics
>> when you're trained in it? Yes.
>> Oh, you you first gather the information
and then you can understand.
>> Well, correct. Mathematics is an
understand.
>> So, in this situation, you gather the
information and then you understand the
situation.
>> The definition says you understand. It
doesn't say you gather information.
>> Yes. And we we went through
understanding like do you understand
mathematics? And you said well first I'd
have to learn the material. It's like
yes you would gather the information
then you would understand.
>> That's my point. That definition doesn't
say that. It just says you understand.
Terry
>> that's what understand means understand
means that there there is information
processing going uh uh taking place.
So you're saying that in a sympathetic
response, people will just automatically
understand what's happening with other
people.
>> That's what you're saying emotionally.
No,
>> that dude,
>> empathy is understanding the situation
that they were in and being able to put
yourself in that situation.
That's demonstrating understanding. You
know what I mean? Sympathy is just like
you see someone crying or whatever,
you're like a tissue. You might feel a
bit bad and all this kind of [__] It's
an emotional response. There's no like
uh rationale or kind of uh spatial
awareness being applied to the
situation.
>> I'm curious where Kasanova is bringing
all this from because that's not what
that's not what the studies show. Like
when I went and looked into things, it
literally is saying that there's no way
to divine that actual empathy is a is a
thing that we have sympathetic response
centers in our brain. And
>> when we look at these, we realize it's
unattainable that humans can ever share
emotions. We can only perceive them
individually.
>> Yes, that we understand.
Guess
>> do you know or do you understand full
truth or absolute truth?
>> No.
>> Yeah. So like you're doing the same
thing with empathy. Like we can't
understand what true empathy is or what
all empathy is, but we can understand
what empathy is.
>> No, I would say if if empathy exists,
God's the only one that could exhibit
it. That's what I would say because I
don't think you have the ability to
share in the emotions of other people.
You only have the ability to perceive
them and guess that you're know what
they're feeling.
>> What does perception mean?
>> To look around and make judgments.
>> Yeah.
>> So in terms of sympathetic respons
there does not mean to need to be any uh
understanding or whatever in terms of
the sympathetic response. You know what
I mean? like you you you basically see a
loved one, they're crying or whatever,
you're you're you're you're going to
have an emotional response to that.
That's the sympathy. With the empathy,
it's the actual understanding about
gathering information of what went on,
then being able to apply advice to it.
>> Because otherwise, like I said, this is
why I say you you have your you're
trying to have your cake and eat it,
too. On the one hand, you're trying to
deny that empathy is even a thing. uh
which is probably like you were
expecting maybe for me to justify
empathy and to to to have to work
through the actual delineation which
we've already pretty much done. No.
>> Um but then on on the opposite side as
well then you have to then defend that
if I was able to do that which I was
able to do that. H you then have to
defend that it's it doesn't play any
role in shaping society. But it seems
like you've already conceded that if you
were to just call that understanding
part or that empathy as as part of
sympathy then you say that is useful to
society.
No, my claim is that people have made
this strange convoluted thing that is
mostly imaginary
and like easy brought up earlier. Uh
does imagining things in the world can
that be helpful? Sure it can. But I
don't think that that's a foundational
building block of building a structured
society. I think that okay this is what
I would say. I would say when I started
this, my whole point was that
sympathetic response leads to people
feeling a way and because there's care
involved, they're going to take action.
The empathy part where it comes to like
sharing in emotions is a perceptional
thing like you can't know. And so this
gets used it gets used all over the
place because you can't actually feel
what other people are feeling. You can
only perceive what you perceive and then
make a guesstimation of what is being
felt and you aren't them and you don't
know. So the sympathetic response is
where you stop and make rational
judgments. You don't claim understanding
without understanding which
>> you have an emotion response and that
gives you rationality.
>> That's not what I said. I said you use
rationality after you have the emotional
response. You have the response and you
make choices.
Yeah, empathy is rational, sympathy is
irrational.
>> I again I don't know where you're
bringing that from. Like you're saying
because you
>> based on what you've been saying cuz
you're saying that sympathy is an
emotional response and then you apply
rationality afterwards. And I'm like
yeah the rationality is the
understanding.
>> Here's the problem. You've now called
One sec. Let me no one sec. There's a
woman. There's a woman crying. You have
crying. You've now called empathy.
Imagination. You've called it
rationality. You've called it everything
but what it what it says. So like
>> Yeah. I was I was showing you in terms
of like how you apply empathy. You use
your imagination. You put yourself in
that position. You're not actually in
that position, but you're putting
yourself in that position. That's
imagination. Created the sympathetic
response already done in this debate.
What created a sympathetic response?
>> I would not want to die.
>> Yeah. What created the sympathetic
response to?
>> Yeah. So,
>> what created the sympathetic response?
>> When when we go back to the woman on the
street that's crying in the middle of
the street,
>> one woman might go up to her, start
crying along with her, and start handing
her tissues, right?
>> What
>> a dude comes along, starts asking her
questions about what happened, and then
provides a solution. Who's the
empathetic one, and who's the
sympathetic one? The sympathetic one is
the woman who's crying with the other
woman on the street. The empathetic one
is the one that's actually providing a
solution.
>> No,
providing a solution is providing a
solution. You're like
>> that's a delineation. Correct. That's
what I mean by empathetic.
>> Both had sympathy
it might as well be God. Do you? That's
what I think.
Again, baseless claim.
>> No, I'm saying every understanding.
>> Every time I say that this is just a
sympathetic response and then a choice
to do something. You're saying, "Yeah,
that choice is empathy." And then I say,
>> "No,
>> that doesn't
>> that's No, you're saying that you're
having an emotional response and then
you do something rational." And I'm
saying, "Yes, that rational thing you do
is the understanding part of the
situation." No, that which elicited that
which elicited
>> that which elicited the emotional
response that is sympathy
>> also initiates the care which is in the
definition.
No, how why is yeah because you're
saying sympathy sympathy is emotional.
>> Okay. So nobody can take
>> and then something rational happens and
then I'm asking what is the rational
thing that happens and then you're
saying well you go to understand the
situation then you put yourself in that
situation. I'm like yeah that's empathy.
>> I didn't say see you keep doing that.
You keep saying what you say is what I'm
saying and I'm not saying what you're
saying.
>> No I'm No, no. You're saying that that
that uh empathy doesn't exist. Then I'm
making a delineation between sympathy
and empathy and then you're saying no. I
don't like that. But that is what the
delineation is.
That's I'm saying
>> and then even even if we do the work
around that easy done when we said just
putting yourself in other people's
positions is that a useful thing to do
for society for building and shaping
society and you said yes you basically
lost on both fronts.
>> That's not what he asked.
>> Why do you change the scenario?
>> What did he ask then? He asked, "Is
being able to imagine what others go
through helpful to society?"
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> Being able to understand other people's
>> and how is that putting yourself in
their shoes?
>> How is that actually doing the thing?
You're making a perceptual guess at what
it's like,
>> not actually doing the thing.
>> Yeah. So again, we asked you what like
is it useful for you to be able to put
yourself in other people's positions,
which you've already done in this
debate, right? So just to just to let
you like that, you you can deny this and
all this kind of sh the the background,
but being able to put yourself in other
people's positions or being able to
understand other people's perspective in
society. Do you think this is useful in
terms of uh shaping society or building
society? You already said yes,
>> in terms of like the actual creative
part.
>> Yeah.
>> It's just creative folding of language
that means nothing. That's what it is.
>> The definition like like you you agreed
to the definition of what empathy is
like that actual skill which you again
you've already done this in the debate
where you said quote I wouldn't want to
die in that example where I said what if
we just wipe out the elders to make
everyone rich. Would you do that? and
you say, "Well, no, they have a duty.
They're going on stuff like I wouldn't
want to die." I like, "Exactly." Because
you put yourself in that position. We we
also had the Breakfast Club question.
>> Um like just hypotheticals in general.
Like this is this thing that we're
describing. Whatever it is, whatever
word we want to use for it, it seems to
be pretty useful to society. So that
that's basically like the the the the
destruction of the the the argument
itself. And then the only thing you can
really fall back on now is saying,
"Well, empathy doesn't even exist or
it's not real." No, I started with
empathy doesn't exist in my [__]
opening statement. I literally lined out
how it doesn't exist.
>> That's what I'm saying. Like what I'm
describing is clearly useful to society.
But now what you're doing is you're
basically the only thing you have is
that to deny what empathy actually is.
And then I say, okay, what part of
>> Yeah. What part of sympathy
understanding?
>> Say that. What? What part of
>> what part of sympathy requires
understanding?
>> Why do you care?
>> What about what?
>> Anything.
>> Why? Why? Why do I want Why do like this
is the the greatest uh questions to
life?
>> No, the sympathetic response happens
because of something.
>> Yeah.
>> I'm asking what's the delineation?
Where's the understanding? Because you
already understand.
>> But I thought you said you you like we
can't mind read.
>> It's not my So I see a woman crying
perception.
>> Yeah. So I see a woman. One sec. One
sec. A see a woman crying on the street.
Do I understand why she's crying?
>> Why do people cry?
>> Do I understand why she's crying? Yes or
no?
>> No.
>> Okay. So then what part of that is
sympathy? Can I not have sympathy even
though I don't understand?
>> You understand? You can because we've
we've seen many times on whatever
podcast one woman starts crying then
another woman starts crying with her.
That's sympathy. We're talking about
empathy. Empathy distinctly has to have
understanding which means you need to
know the story. You need to know the
situation.
>> You wouldn't feel if you didn't
understand anything
>> if you know people cry or have that
response.
>> You can have and not understand whatever
they're going through. It's just they're
they're crying. My point is you don't
know the thing. You don't know the
thing. You only
>> and the delineation is the
understanding. You never know the thing.
>> So now you're saying pattern recognition
is like literally this is so goofy.
>> Well, would that be objective?
>> Like you automatically
in nature you crying.
>> What are you talking about? No.
Automatically
>> like I've I've I've seen people cry
before and I'm
>> sympathetic response is automatic. You
don't choose to have a sympathetic
response. Sympathetic response is an
automatic reaction to sensory data which
is some level of understanding that
already is built in.
>> Yeah. And then understanding the
position that they're in.
What is that?
>> Based on what?
>> No. What is that? Based on the position
they're in.
>> That's my question to you. Based on
what? How are you getting that
information?
>> Yes. You're you're talking to them.
>> You're just gathering information. Yeah,
>> it doesn't say that.
>> So what is that? What is that? How what
word would we use to describe that?
>> No, you have to firstify to describe
that part.
>> False. You have to justify. You've
already in the corner. Hey,
>> no. There's no corner. You are in the
corner. Let me explain. You have to
justify.
>> Baby's in the corner.
>> How you know to even seek more
information?
>> You you you're you're conceding that
sympathetic response is just the
emotional. There's no like reason where
you just you just see a woman crying and
you you put your arm around a it's okay.
>> Really? Why does it say care or concern?
>> The
>> Why does it say concern?
>> Then on the empathetic side, I'm saying
what is the differentiation here? Like
to actually understand the position that
they're in. What is the differentiation
here? And you're then about to say,
well, that's sympathy as well, but
you've already put the full stop. That's
why I kept saying full stop because the
sympathy is the emotional response. It's
the emotional trigger.
All right. So, that is uh going to wrap
up the uh open floor here. All right. Uh
excellent exchanges from both sides
tonight. Uh we're going to enter into
the final phase of the debate, closing
statements. Quick reminder to the live
chat, okay, the Q&A is already up there
for you guys. Uh so, if you got
questions for either debater, make sure
you drop them in now. But remember,
super chats, PayPals, cash apps, they do
take priority. So if those fill the
whole full uh the whole 30 minutes, not
all the Q&A questions will make it
through. So if there's something you
really want guaranteed to be asked, send
it through one of the priority options.
Uh with that said, uh we're going to
move into closings here. Uh so we're
going to be starting with Abe and then
we'll give Terak the last word. So, Abe,
whenever you're ready for your closing
statement, I will uh start the timer up
with your voice.
>> All right. So I would say basically my
main point is that the way that empathy
is utilized in the modern era is that
you have the ability to feel what other
people are feeling or share in their
feelings
uh in real time like in a way that isn't
actually possible. And you do in fact as
a human being have a sympathetic
response based on your mirror neurons.
And usually because of pattern
recognition in the human mind that
sympathy response then prompts care.
In that way any action after that is
choice making. It's not some empathy
because you actually understand or feel
or know what's going on internally. You
are perceiving yourself and thinking how
would I feel and then taking an action
for that person based on self not based
on what's actually internally in them
and the running thing for everyone is
that you have to put yourself in their
emotions in their feelings. This is this
is an impossibility. You can't feel what
they're feeling in the same way that
they're feeling it. You can only make
guesswork. And I think that that
wishy-washyiness to this word empathy
has been used over and over again to
to get people to act in ways that are
beyond their normal reactions, normal uh
level of care. And I think that when we
look at things like sympathy, which is
fine to have, um, it's not always
warranted, but if you temper
emotions like sympathy and you run a
baseline on it and then go, okay, yes,
this sucks for these people. Uh, what
can we do about it
outside of emotion that will help them?
that is good. But if we look at it from
an emotional or a or an empathetic
what they call empathetic uh response,
what you're going to do is say I feel
how they feel. I can share in the
emotions
and because I share in these emotions uh
I want everything for them. And I think
that we've seen that repeatedly
throughout time. And I think it's it's
been the basically the downfall that
we're seeing now. you see the the the
passing in of the a full-blown feminist
movement that seeks not equality but
seeks dominance and then they usher in
uh gay rights movements and then that
ushers in trans rights movements and and
this is all based on empathy not on
sympathy. And if we had stopped at the
empathy mark and said, "Anything beyond
this is me imagining what ought be
regardless of whether or not my belief
that I feel this is true or false." And
so I think that I think that a lot of
what we call empathy today isn't
grounded in anything but imaginings.
>> All right. Thank Excuse me. Thank you
for that closing statement. And with
that, we're going to hand the mic over
to Terak. Terak, whenever you're ready
for your closing statement, I'll start
the timer up with your voice.
Oh, you're muted.
>> Thank you very much. Uh yeah, so again,
shout out to Easy. Uh thanks for having
me on. Again, apologies for uh for being
late at the start and again, thanks for
showing up. Um but yeah, like this this
is kind of like to me it was an
important uh topic uh because
particularly with the argument that Abe
used tonight trying to put this whole
kind like feminist uh thing in your
heads and all this kind of thing is and
it's um it's a very uh uh seductive
option to just try and say ah well
empathy is useless. Let's just call it
fugazi. Let's just poo poo it and all
this kind of stuff. But essentially,
this is what the left wants you to do
because then they can paint you off as
being se. They don't even acknowledge
that empathy exists. They're like so uh
callous, so uh uh you know like
tyrannical, all this kind of stuff. They
they have no appreciation for anybody
except for themselves, etc., etc. and
you basically lose the fight because as
I pointed out and I was hoping that the
conversation would go a bit more down
this line of like the the usefulness of
how we could actually apply empathy and
use it against the likes of the feminist
where it's you can just point out like
why do you seem to have so much empathy
and so much understanding for people who
are not your own countrymen who scream
death to America etc etc or just for
like all these um predatorial women is
the the only way I can describe it. Why
do you have so much empathy for them,
but you have no empathy for the man? Um,
that's where I'm saying like uh that
that that's where it's like a pitfall
that a lot of people on the right wing
uh fall into where they they give up the
fight. They're just like, "Oh, like I
can't win this fight cuz they're using
all this empathetic language, all this
stuff when you can actually beat them at
their own game." Um, like I was saying
in terms of the the debate, uh, like I
wasn't really expecting Abe just to kind
of deny that empathy was, uh, was a
thing. Um, and like I said, even from
that as well, it seemed like he wanted
his cake and to eat it, too. On the one
hand, he's denying that empathy is even
a thing or just uh blurring the lines
between empathy and sympathy. But then
when I say, okay, like let's not focus
on what the words call. Let's just focus
on the action of like understanding uh
like our fellow man or fellow
countrymen. Uh it seems like he agrees
that this is useful tool like being able
to understand the wants and desires of
of other people is a very useful tool.
uh being able to put yourself in that
position which Abe done in this debate
when he basically made the blunder of
saying well I wouldn't want to die uh
when I gave the example of okay the
government's deciding whether or not to
wipe out the elderly we'll we'll all be
more uh rich but we we do wipe out the
elderly and then Abe said I wouldn't
want to die yeah that's empathy being
applied you you put yourself in a
situation saying I don't want the
government to wipe me out just to make
everyone else richer no [__] that's
called empathy um in terms of the like I
said uh the back and forth Uh, like I
said, I think it was a good show tonight
and appreciate a for showing up and easy
uh for always.
>> Thank you.
>> All right. Thank you for that closing
statement. That will conclude the
closing statements. Again, great work
from both debaters tonight. Uh, if
you're enjoying what you're seeing, make
sure you like the stream, subscribe to
the channel so you don't miss any of the
debates we host here on Swords of
Reason. We run all kinds of matchups,
okay? It's political debates, cultural
debates, social issues, philosophy,
internet beefs, trending topics. Listen,
if there's a conversation worth clashing
over, we bring it to the arena. All
right? And also, don't forget to
subscribe to tonight's debaters as well.
Their links are in the description. Make
sure you show them support for uh
stepping into the arena and sharpening
their arguments tonight in front of all
of us. Okay. So, uh before I start the
timer for the chat Q&A, I always like to
ask a question or two for both sides, uh
based on arguments I heard, maybe an
argument I want clarified, things I
think were missed, and anywhere along
these lines. And then once those uh
questions are answered, uh we'll begin
the official minute uh 30 minute Q&A.
So, Chad, you can get your questions in,
send those super chats in. All right. Um
but so with my questions
um I'm going to start with uh the
negative for this one. Um so for you
Terak uh if empathy
like can be exploited through like
emotional appeals and like propaganda
stuff like this. what what what
safeguard should exist like to prevent
empathy from being weaponized?
>> Uh to me this you need you need the full
picture. So like I uh for me to prevent
this whole thing of like empty going
one-sided like we we see so much empathy
for illegal immigration but no empathy
for their their their fellow countrymen.
um is to make sure that like each
individual subgroup or individual is is
listed in in this empathy uh uh when
when they're kind of saying this is why
we should be empathetic. These are all
the the subgroups involved in the
situation. And from there you should be
able to outline each one of the the
groups uh kind of uh either kind of um
like their mentality or their goals,
their wants, their uh whatever way you
want to describe it essentially. You
know what I mean? So be able to to list
off each position of it. So again like
the the the example that was used was
like feminism um like with the feminists
my counter to them would be like what
about the empathy for the men and if
they say well there is no empathy there
the thing all this kind of stuff well
you're showing me you have not applied
empathy across the board you know what I
mean so it's it's this kind of selective
empathy that the the problem is it's not
just empathy
>> all right and did you have anything for
that Abe
>> um this is why in my opening statement I
said that I don't think that it should
be utilized as the basis for for like
policym and things like that. I think
the safeguard is
you make it for for the benefit of the
people involved and then
anything beyond that has to be what can
increase the quality of life. So like
when I say sympathetic response I'm not
talking about just sympathy. And I'm
talking about the whole suite of things
that come with it. And like psych
psychologically, we have this response
within us that prompts action. And the
action isn't empathy. It's the action
that follows naturally from a
sympathetic response. And that's why I
say choice needs to be the next step. So
I think that we need to say okay we
understand
naturally and this is not like some
empathy because we don't actually know
we know they're suffering for instance
you could say we see these people
suffering what is the best course of
action we can do not based on an
emotional response
based on what rationale right so
if we base it on it's so hard for me to
expl explain this. There's my huge issue
with with the with the empathy label as
it as it stands is it puts a lot of
power into taking action based on
emotion rather than having emotion and
choosing based on best rationale.
And so when when we look at it that way,
in most of what I've seen throughout my
life, when people have empathy, it tends
to lead towards I'm making this choice
because I know what this person or this
group is feeling, even though it's not
truly what they're feeling. It's that
person's perception of what they're
feeling. So I don't think that we should
react based on feelings. We should react
based on what's best for the situation.
I guess I don't if that makes any sense.
>> All right. All right.
Um so my next question uh for you Terak
is um so like if empathy should help
with shaping society where should its
influence stop?
Like in other words, like at what point
does empathy become favoritism and like
how should society draw that line?
>> Um
well the key thing is is obviously in
war, you know what I mean? Because at
that stage it's like the talking's over.
Um so in terms of kind of like to to
draw the specific line like that would
be a clear one in terms of like war and
things like that. in terms of um like I
said like the the overlication of
empathy I think is is a misunderstanding
in terms of the actual problem. Like to
me like it comes down to you're not
applying it across the board. Um because
I genuinely think that if you if you
applied across the board like more
understanding of different perspectives
should yield better results because in
terms of the like like functionality of
government itself the more different
perspectives you have the more of a
truthful or accurate picture you're able
to work with. Um, so for me it it comes
down to like any any situation where
like force is uh necessary or needed to
be applied. That's where I draw the
line. So like for example like war and
things like that kind of thing.
>> All right. And did you have anything for
that Abe?
>> Um, no. Because I'm already basically
claiming that we shouldn't base it on on
the empathy from the first part.
>> That Okay, that's fair. That's fair. Um
so okay
uh my first question for you Abe is um
if society removes empathy or like and
I'm using your you can use your what you
think empathy is like the imagination
and projection
um if society removes this from decision
making like what principles replace it
when determining like what counts as uh
cruelty or unnecessary suffering things
like this.
Um I would say like
basically I would say Christian moral
ethics and then
agreement within uh the church like I
think that we we one we have the
response
naturally of sympathy towards inaction
right and if we're like if we have
built-in Christian moral ethics and
systems in place and those values are
already inset because of it. Then our
our sympathetic response is going to be
activated by the very things that that
uh inform our ethical systems and then
we will take actions based on that on
that.
I don't think we need to go to the
imaginings. I think that that's a step
too far. And I think when we start
projecting or or perceiving and thinking
we know then we're lying to ourselves.
Okay. And did you have anything for
that, Terry?
>> Well, like then then why did you do it
earlier in the debate when I gave the
example of the the government's wiping
out the the elderly? Why why did you
just say, "Well, I wouldn't want to die
>> cuz I know I wouldn't want to die.
>> I don't know what they want.
>> I don't know what they want."
>> Applying empathy, though.
>> No, that's me applying I don't want to
die. I didn't say they don't want to
die, which is I wouldn't want to.
>> Yeah. which is you putting yourself in
the position of the hypothetically
elderly.
>> That still doesn't conform to the
definition.
>> If you say so.
All right. All right. And um
my next one is um if if like if this is
like I guess uh we're you call it
perspective taking and if this is just
projection, right? Ho how do
what's like what's the explanation for
like humans
being able to like reliably cooperate,
comfort each other, avoid
uh conflicts
without like some functional
understanding of the other's emotions.
So I think that we
can only know what we feel. And because
we know what we feel in certain moments,
we will base our own judgments on those
things. And so if we say, um, if I was
in that situation, I wouldn't like it,
so I'm not going to do it.
But that's still self-p projection.
You're still projecting that onto the
world. You don't know that everyone's
going to do the same thing as you.
You're making a selfish judgment based
on your projection. It's that whole
thing. We look through a glass darkly.
We project our will onto the world. And
because of that, we assume that others
are are going to act or feel the same
way that we do. And I don't think that
it requires understanding other people.
It requires understanding yourself. And
then you project that onto the world
thinking that you're understanding them.
>> That's Yeah. So that's what I was
saying. Like that's what you're saying
it is. And I'm asking like what is it
then that humans are doing or have that
make it
um like the social cohesion?
How are they doing this without that?
>> How are they building social cohesion
without
>> Yeah. It's not about like projection and
and that what what is it that they're
>> I don't know care for others care for
I mean I I think that there's a inbuilt
natural care for one another. That's why
we we have like maternal instinct, we
have paternal instincts, we have uh
survival instinct of ourselves and
others. And we obviously have automatic
responses when we see horrific things
happen to other people. Like all of that
is fairly innate to us. And I don't mean
like we know what's right and wrong
automatically. But I do know that like
humans have inbuilt reactions to nearly
everything.
You feel disgust. You won't even know
why you feel the disgust, but you see
something and you feel disgusted over
it. Why is that? Well, it's kind of an
inbuilt response and then your sensory
data that you've now taken that elicited
the response of disgust is going to
drive you to take an action of some
kind.
I think a lot of that is is a the first
building block or the first chunk of it
and the next chunk is relational
building all the relationships that you
do in the world and knowing that
things that matter to you might matter
to others.
But I I I think that part of what I'm
claiming is that because we
I I I understand what you're how you're
seeing this Terry. The the difference
for me is that we
This is so hard to put into words. I
feel like we lie to ourselves
about the world
because we make all these claims. And
yeah, you're saying you did that
earlier. I'm not making a claim that
that is facious. I'm saying I wouldn't
want to. I'm not making a claim that I
know how they feel. I'm not making a
claim that I understand what's in their
heads or in their experience. I'm only
making a claim of self projected onto
the world, which is not the same as me
understanding their position and living
vicariously through them as the
definition said.
>> All right. And did you have anything for
that?
>> Yeah, like my whole thing is that that's
what we call empathy. I mean, that's why
we we build relationships uh with other
nations, like other cultures and all
this kind of thing. Um like Abee's
basically doing the whole kind of like
circus act where he's like doing
everything to describe empathy without
actually saying the word empathy. Um
because again, like it seems like his
response there was just like we just
have this inbuilt thing to care. Um, but
we can talk about any travesty, you
know, like of like villages getting like
uh uh uh genocide like engraved and all
this kind of [__] in terms of like North
Africans like people that like look very
similar to each other and all this kind
of stuff yet there's tons of violence.
We could talk about Northern Ireland. We
could talk about how America bombs
Middle East and all this kind of [__]
It's like where's the the the inbuilt
care uh uh there it it doesn't seem to
to work. But when we uh accept the
definition of empathy then all of a
sudden we have some way to to rationally
explain why different cultures were able
to work together build towards and
that's why we have concept of the west
which is yeah like uh kind of similar
looking people but in terms of like the
cultures they're they're different and
distinct languages are different and
distinct um but they still somehow have
like this shared goal or this shared
kind of like vision that they're they're
they're aiming towards and the only way
you're able to do that and to have that
shared exper experience or that shared
goal is through empathy.
>> All right. All right. So, now we're
going to get into the Q&A. Like I said,
chat, uh, super chats get priority. So,
if you want to bump, uh, yourself up,
uh, go ahead and send in a super chat.
But, uh, let's start the timer up here.
Let's bring up the first one here. We
just got a $2 from S Paternal. Says, uh,
nothing. just showing some support.
Thank you very much. I appreciate that
big time. And then another $5 from SE
eternal chaos. Uh saying nothing. Just
showing some support. Thank you very
much.
Uh we got Dan
IRL Ramirez says, "Bear, bear, bear." Uh
what is that? Bacon.
>> Bacon.
>> Bear bear bear bacon. Drool.
Christ.
Um, high five. Cool.
Thank you for that. I appreciate it.
And then we got Chaos Nova comes in
member for two months and sends a super
chat with the same question. So, thank
you for being a member for two months. I
appreciate that big time. And then $5
with the same question. Can you explain
Abe how there's an empathy center of the
brain but no sympathy center of the
brain and how sociopaths have a quote
broken empathy center?
So this is what I said earlier. We we
denoted it as an empathy center. And so
if that center has the same response
during sympathetic response as it does
during what they're calling empathy
response, then it would be the exact
same thing. It's just what we have
labeled it. It's not like if humans have
emotions and they have similar emotions
and those emotions are contained in that
part of the brain that doesn't like that
doesn't denote that it's now empathy
that denotes that people feel similarly
that's again what I said in my opening
statement was there is
there is let me I I'll go back to it
because
it's basically
Uh I can't remember what I said it was.
It's
it's similarity
of emotional states, but there's no
knowing that you're feeling the same
thing because it's in the same part of
the brain. That's like saying because I
had a memory and you had a memory, it's
the same memory. It's it doesn't mean
that. It just means memories come from
there. If sympathetic emotional
responses come from that center of the
brain, there's no denoting that it's
empathy or sympathy or care or kindness
or like and those are generally housed
in that is there
>> because he's saying he's specifically
saying can you explain that how there's
an empathy center of the brain but no
sympathy center. So when you're talking
about sympathy that's that uh initial
emotional response, right? But what
denotes that it's empathy because they
again they hooked them up to the brain
and they could see that when they were
trying to understand the full situation
this center of their their brain was
activated only when they were trying to
understand the situation and that's the
delineation between the empathy.
>> I want to see that study cuz
>> all right uh $2 comes in from Chaos Novo
says that was the goofiest response. be
better. Abe
and S paternal chaos comes in for $2.
Says nothing. Just showing some support.
Thank you very much. I appreciate that
big time. Uh Chaos Nova for $5 says,
"Yet psychiatric professionals and brain
surgeons have clearly documented that
sympathy is an emotional response to an
empathetic understanding.
That again that doesn't actually track
because you can have a first glimpse of
something and have a sympathetic
response without any understanding of
the situation that's happening. Like I
don't
>> it's your parasympathetic nervous system
is is an autoresponse system. It's not
an understanding based system
like I
>> $5 from Chaos Nova as well says anterior
insula responsible for effective empathy
particularly processing pain and disgust
felt by others.
>> Like I said, mirror neurons don't mean
you feel the same thing. It means you
have a pattern recognition that makes
you feel similar. Not.
>> Yeah. You can recognize the same pattern
that got them into a situation. Correct.
>> Not necessarily. Like this. This is what
I'm trying to say. Like I said earlier,
Terak is like you can see somebody
crying. You don't know why they're
crying. You'll feel sympathy because
they're crying and then you may take an
action because of the sympathy response.
>> Yeah. But you're saying it's it's a
pattern recognition that you can
recognize the pattern. It's like Yes.
And you just put yourself into that
pattern and then you say, "Oh, well, I
now understand how they feel."
You can understand you can understand
that there's a feeling and you make a
guess that you know what that feeling
is. It's not that you know. It's that
you like you don't know if she's crying
cuz she's happy. You don't know if she's
crying cuz she's sad. You don't know if
she's crying cuz her mom died. You don't
know if she's crying because she lost
her wallet. You just know she's crying.
>> And so
something happens.
>> Yeah. The sympathy would be to to to put
her arm around her, give her a tissue,
all that kind of stuff. The empathy
part, be able to hear out her story, and
then to be able to put yourself in that
position and say, "You should go do
XYZ."
>> All right. Uh, $5 twice in a row with
the same question. I don't know if that
was an accident or what, but thank you
very much, Leafy Water. Kai, uh, empathy
is shown in how much compassion and
understanding we can give to another.
Sympathy is more of a feeling of pity
for another.
>> No response,
>> right?
>> No response for you, Leafy.
>> It just feels like I I don't know. It
just feels like we take understanding,
compassion, all these things, and we
group them together and call them
empathy when you could just say they're
compassionate
or they're understanding.
All right. Uh, birds aren't even real.
True. for $5 says, "While emotional
empathy may be difficult, narcissists
can practice cognitive empathy,
consciously working to understand
another's perspective and feels."
Now, I would agree that there is such a
thing as cognitive empathy because
you're understanding, you are seeking to
understand, but I don't think the actual
emotional part of it is is a true
possibility. I think you can you can
make a a guess at the similarity of your
emotional states but I don't I but the
understanding part the cognitive part I
could agree with.
>> Yeah. So cognitive empathy would be
useful to society like shaping society
>> but even then it's still a guess.
I'm still the problem I have with this
is the subjectivity,
right, that goes along with the guess
that you're making based on your
perception and the weather
>> man has been misused.
>> The weatherman puts out predictions.
Doesn't mean it's not useful.
>> Yeah, usually it's not though.
>> Oh, usually it is.
>> No.
>> Yes.
>> Maybe where you live it is.
>> They get it wrong more often than they
get it right. So, why why why are they
putting on the news if it's all just
guesswork? Cuz it's all just
predictions.
>> Great question.
>> Yeah.
>> Uh Trench Deacon comes in for $5. Says,
"PTSD and cluster B disorders use the
skin conductance test or response test
revealing contradictions in former
diagnostics for sympathy and empathy.
Any thought?"
Yeah, I think that
there's a this is partially why I I made
the claim that there's a woowooness to
it because there's enough that we know
something's happening, but not enough to
claim that we know what's happening and
then we make up all these stories about
what empathy is and how it responds. And
it just seems to me that there's not
enough to even claim that it's a true
reality. It's like a perception that
we're doing this thing.
>> Yeah. Like the similar thing would be
like
uh if we use like a car as an example,
if the engine's already [__] your
your exhaust pipe is going to be [__]
You know what I mean? So, in terms of
like the like these people have like
mental disorders and they're not
mentally uh behaving the way they we
expect them to. Yeah. Because they've
got mental disorders.
All right. Uh, next one comes in from
Leafy Water Kai. Uh, two $5 in a row
again. Yeah, he must be doing that by
accident. Or maybe he just really likes
to send him in twice just to make sure.
All right. But thank you very much,
Leafy. I appreciate you big time. Uh,
question to Terry. How can you tell the
difference between an empathetic
response and a projection of your own
mental state?
>> Yeah. Yeah. So, like this is where I'm
saying uh applying like the the rational
or the reason or the logic. So, like
trying to to make the claim that I'm
being empathetic and if my wife cheated
on me or uh like a person a did um that
like I'd actually feel happy about that
situation. You know what I mean? That's
clearly just like a a a projection cuz
you're not applying trying to apply an
objective standard to it. The key thing
for me would be like what objective uh
standard are you comparing it against?
You know what I mean? So like we could
like talk about like data uh like survey
data and all this kind of stuff for
particular thing but that's the key
thing uh where it's it's not you're just
saying it's like well I feel as though
this is the way these people should feel
is not the same way as saying I've
gathered information from these people
and based on what they're saying and
then tying into the events that action
to them I can now understand their
positions and move from that perspective
not just my own perspective.
unmuted. Of course, I got to talk on
mute at least once.
>> Uh
uh. Sorry. Were you going to say
something there, Abe?
>> Well, I was going to say this is kind of
what I'm arguing. Like I don't see how
you can effectively say that it's truly
empathetic if it's always
from a from a perceptive stance. Like
there's no
I don't know. It's it just seems
I don't know. You can claim that it's
empathy and it not be empathy all day
long. And I don't know that there's any
way to say it is or isn't,
which makes it
like either.
>> Yeah. So like to apply the situation. So
if they say that like my wife cheated on
me and then in my hypothetical my wife's
not cheating on me, then that wouldn't
be empathy.
>> Yeah. Yeah, but the problem is using one
individual point and the point I'm
making is that overall through every
situation always
>> anywhere in reality it could be claimed
that empathy is being exhibited whilst
it is not.
>> No, cuz I'm giving an example,
>> right?
>> I'm saying like if in my hypothetical
that the wife's not cheating on me, then
it wouldn't be an empathetic response,
>> right? But there's no universal to that.
Like you could have a whole group of
guys over here that are red pillars
saying good, he's probably happy he
escaped the bullet. He dodged a bullet
and now he's free to sleep around. Like
you, what I'm saying is
>> again,
>> yeah, but in in their hypothetical, they
they can't then say that the wife didn't
cheat on them. They have to apply the
the standards or the situation that was
applied to the person that they're
talking to,
>> right? But that still wouldn't have
that's the factual data is no longer
empathy then. That's just factual data.
>> No, we're applying whatever the
information is from the situation they
find themselves in. So, for example, in
uh in this case, uh wife cheated on me.
I mean, I can't then use a hypothetical
or an example where
>> you have to have knowledge about the
situation to have empathy.
>> Do I understand? Yes,
>> you have to have knowledge about the
situation to have empathy.
>> Understand? Yes. You you gather the
information. Remember that.
>> That's not what the definition says.
>> That's why I am against empathy. The
idea of empathy is having
>> okay what's the definition
>> the the having understanding
and care for the person based on the
situation I you have to read it again
but literally what you you said earlier
is that they then go and get the
information but in the definition it
says they understand it doesn't say they
go and seek it says they understand and
that for me is a statement of you see
something and you have an understanding
ing before you've done anything because
the empathy is the thing that we're
discussing, not the after action.
>> How how can I understand the situation
if all I've seen?
>> That's my point. That's my point.
>> What I'm saying is what then happens?
Then you ask her
>> people claim they have empathy.
>> One sec. One second.
>> It's not cuz it what happened to you?
And then she starts like giving you the
whole story. And from that story, you
start extracting out the facts. And like
I said in this to two leaf water
question of like how do you know the
difference between empathetic response
and a projection of your own mental
state? The projection of your own mental
state won't factor in the individual
facts for that particular situation that
you're trying to be empathetic towards.
This is this is so ass backwards. People
when they have empathy aren't they
didn't do a a book report on it first
and then they have empathy. People claim
empathy prior to even knowing the full
facts of what's going on. So I don't
know where
>> Yeah. that that would be a a mental
projection say because you don't
understand the full situation. So then
how can you apply empathy if you don't
understand a situation if you don't have
all the facts?
>> How
I'm I'm
I need to pull it up myself now cuz
that's it's not the claim isn't that you
go and look up facts that you know all
the facts. It's that you have an
understanding like
>> like when somebody's like I had a bad
day. Can you understand a situation
without understanding the facts?
>> Can you understand a situation where you
don't have the facts?
>> No.
>> Yeah.
>> But that's not Oh my gosh. Why would it
Why would the definition say
understanding without any pre
prerequisite?
>> That's what I'm saying. Abe,
>> no, this is this is wrong. The the
definition is making the claim that you
understand prior to knowing the facts.
Terry,
>> that's why I'm against
>> where
>> where does it say that?
>> The action of understanding, being aware
of, being sensitive to and vicariously
experienced in the feelings, thoughts,
experience of another. How can you do
that without understanding or hearing
out their story?
>> That's why I'm against it because there
is no prerequisite for actually having
knowledge and understanding.
>> In order to Yeah. to understand, you
need to hear out the story. You need to
get out the facts.
>> No,
>> you just said you cannot understand
without knowing the facts.
>> That's what the
>> That's what the definition literally
means. It doesn't mean you went and
looked up everything first.
>> This definition literally means the way
that it's written is that you have an
understanding prior.
>> You say prior? Where does it say prior?
>> Oh my god.
>> Where does it say prior?
>> How hard is that? The action of
understanding, being aware of, being
sensitive and vicarious experience, the
feelings and experience of other
understanding. The action of
understanding. How do you just
understand?
>> Yes. So, you see a girl crying on the
side of the street and you say, "What
happened to reading that into that you
being empathetic? That's you wanting to
hear out all the facts and then you can
apply that situation to yourself."
>> This is why I had a problem with it the
whole time. You're reading into it a
bunch of things that are not in it.
>> You're reading a definition. Does it say
that? I'm reading exactly what it says.
I'm not adding words like prior. I'm not
adding words like prior and [__] like
that. In order to understand, you have
to gather the information correctly.
>> You're saying No, you're saying
>> So, you don't have to gather the
information.
>> I didn't say that.
>> If you ask me a question in the middle
of my statement and then act like my
statement has changed because you asked
me in the middle of the question
>> because I was trying to continue
speaking.
>> Yeah.
>> You asked me a question in the middle of
a [__] sentence.
>> Yeah.
I said no because I wanted you to shut
up so I could finish the sentence, not
because I was answering the question.
>> Okay. Okay. Okay. Go ahead. Go ahead.
Finish the sentence.
>> I don't even [__] know what I was
saying now.
>> Okay. So, in terms because you're trying
to say just like understanding, but then
you're not able to understand the facts.
You're not able to get the story off
him. But then you have to understand as
soon as as soon as you you see the girl
crying, you have to understand their
situation. Whereas, this has been
completely against what I've been
saying. What I've been saying is empathy
requires you to understand the facts of
the story of the situation. Otherwise,
how can you understand the situation in
>> the definition doesn't say that in the
definition
of knowing the act of understanding?
>> No, it doesn't say the act of knowing. A
>> no, it says act. This is not what the
definition says. And it's like action of
understanding.
>> What's the actual understanding? Yes.
>> Yes. Hearing out someone's story.
>> Really?
Yes.
>> Really, the action of understanding.
>> If I'm in the action of understanding,
I'm listening to someone's story. I'm
gathering some sort of of information,
data, whatever word you want to call it.
>> I don't That's not how Whoa. I messed
that up somehow.
Um,
that's not how it would be read. I like
when you read that definition, it's not
saying you did prerequisite work. You
you did research.
>> Miriam Webster. This is the Miriam
Webster dictionary.
>> It says what it says, though. If it said
speaking to understand
and looking into it, then it would mean
that. But it doesn't say that. It says
the action of understanding. How is
there an action of understanding?
>> Yes. So you're hearing out their story.
You're gathering more information.
>> It doesn't say that you are adding that.
>> What is the action of understanding?
>> Action of understanding.
>> What is the action of understanding
mathematics then?
>> Why do you bring it to mathematics when
this is not
>> physics? What what is the action of
understanding physics? disanalogous to
this statement.
>> How is it disan analogous?
>> What does it say? You're seeking What
does it say?
>> I'm just replacing one word in a
sentence.
>> Replacing one word in a sentence.
>> No, you're not. No, you're not. You're
changing the entire sentence. What's it
say?
>> How the action of understanding that's
what empathy is. So then what is it?
Doesn't say what you're understanding.
>> It doesn't say what you're
understanding.
>> Yeah. But what I'm what I'm doing is I'm
implying saying okay when we're saying
the action of understanding mathematics
what are we doing in that action
>> what is the the the action that we're
doing when we're understanding
mathematics the action of understanding
mathematics is processing the
information
>> which again in the example that I'm
telling you is you're understanding
their story you g gather all the facts
of their story and then the empathy part
is you putting yourself in that story
>> hold
So let me just ask maybe this will help
build a bridge here because I I heard
Abe saying it doesn't mean you need all
the info but would you say that there's
some uh preerequisite knowledge
necessary for understanding anything?
>> I think in general yes but when you say
that person's very understanding it
doesn't mean they went and [__]
researched [__] It means they're kind.
It means they're understanding in the
moment.
And this definition says the action of
understanding.
>> Yeah. So when we say the action, I'm
just asking to like when to understand
anything, do you need like
>> um some preerequisite
>> knowledge? Is that necessary for
understanding?
>> If we're talking about learning a
subject or something like that, yes. But
when you say that's a very that person's
very understanding, what does that mean?
Does that mean they did a bunch of
prerequisite work and they studied
things or does it mean they're caring
and kind and considerate?
>> What does that mean?
>> They're able to listen. They're able to
listen to your story and extract out the
facts.
>> Alhamdulillah, we got the
>> No, I Okay.
All right. Uh, go to the next one here.
Um, next one comes in from
Fuzzy Balls for $5. Says, "Uh, when
Russia banned GMOs, was that empathy or
sympathy for its people?
>> I don't freaking know. It was best
practice for keeping their people safe.
>> Yeah. Empathy.
>> All right. All right.
Then we got bully mom comes in for $5.
Says empathy is sharing and taking on
another person's feelings while sympathy
is caring from a distance.
And then bully mom has another five
comes in and says example someone's on
fire. Empathy is jumping in the fire
with them. Sympathy is knowing they're
hurting but feel bad without jumping in
fire with them.
No comments. I just I like it it's
almost like everyone is saying if you
have sympathy you're incapable of action
and if you take an action you now have
empathy and it's like that
it doesn't follow to me like if I have
sympathy for something and I make a
choice or if I have sympathy for
something and I don't make a choice or I
don't do something
it doesn't change that it was sympathy
that drove the action and then we call
empathy because there's understanding.
It's like I don't
I don't know why we have to carry it
into this
new weird thing that isn't a need.
>> All right.
>> Right. Like care can just be care
>> but empathy
can care for someone.
>> Yeah. A nurse can care for someone who
got stabbed. Just need to understand how
he how he got stabbed and all this kind
of [__] being empathy for the dude that
got got stabbed. You'd have to
understand how he got stabbed.
>> I don't think that's how the the the
sentence is structured or how the
English language works. And I've never
heard of it being put that way. The the
understanding part is
>> Miriam Webster dictionary.
I I know which dictionary I' I've also
looked it up, but it nowhere in there
does it say that you have to gain that
knowledge. It just says you understand.
>> Yeah. Understanding comes from gaining
knowledge. Correct.
>> Yes. So, how do people feel empathy for
people they've never
known anything about what's going on?
They just hear their story. They just
have that understanding. No, without it.
I've seen plenty of people have empathy
for the people of whatever country
without knowing
>> and they have no clue who they are, what
their story is. They have empathy for
them.
>> They just
>> I think that would be to to answer uh
water's uh earlier question. Well, that
would be an example of mental projection
where they they didn't even hear out the
story and they somehow have empathy.
>> Most of the empathy I hear about today,
not like a
>> So you can have understanding with no
information.
>> People claim it all the time. Terry.
>> Yeah, people can lie. Yes. But I'm
asking you straight up.
>> You can have understanding without
information. Correct.
>> You cannot have information without
>> so when
>> Yeah. Without understanding which means
when we go back to the definition of
empathy and and requiring understanding
means that you have to gather
information which means you have to hear
the person's story out. That's why
empathy the key the key distinction I've
been saying all night is the
understanding part. you're able to put
yourself, you have to get extract all
the facts out of their story and put
yourself into that story.
All right. Uh, next one. Uh, I think
that's actually it for super chat. So,
we're going to move over to the Q&A here
when we got a couple minutes left. Uh,
first one that came in was from
re-examination Joe. uh says, "Diana Choy
playing a vital role in Star Trek or was
Diana Choy playing a vital role in Star
Trek: The Next Generation? If so, then
her being an empath is a vital role."
Boom roasted. I I didn't put the boom
roasted part, but it says boom roasted
in the comment.
I don't know how I accidentally uh Oh, I
did that with a couple of these
actually. The next one that comes in
from Chaos Nova says, "Abe, are you
claiming to have better understanding
than Mark Davis who established the
interpersonal reactivity index which
dives in depth with a four scale
structure
that's supposed to stay at the end?"
>> I'm not saying I know better than
anyone. I'm just
there. It's just a weird
or maybe things have changed. I don't
know.
All right. All right. Um, next one is
from Chaos Nova says, "If you state that
these things follow a sympathetic
response, then why does the overall
psychological community not only
disagree but states that sympathy
follows
>> follow?" Wait, what?
>> I think they're saying sympathy follows
the empathy.
>> Empathy. How can you know before you
know? That's exactly what Terak is
saying. He's saying you know first then
you take the empathetic path. But if
empathy has to come first you know
nothing at that point and you have
sympathy after. How does that work?
>> No we were saying the sympathetic
response is the emotional response. You
see a woman crying
>> you're instantly going to be like oh
[__] But then the empathy comes with
actually hearing out her story or
understanding is saying sympathy follows
empathy. If that is the case,
how
I put the question back up.
>> There will be no emotional response to
prompt empathy in the first place. So
how would that work?
>> If you state these things follow a
sympathetic response, then why does
overall psychological community not only
disagree but states that sympathy
follows?
>> Yeah.
>> So where' the understanding come from?
>> Oh, sympathy follows empathetic
responses. Sorry, that one didn't go in
full either for some reason.
>> I must have a limit on here. That's why.
>> But yeah, that's supposed to say like
this.
>> The delineation here is is the emotions.
That's what the sympathy is talking
about. Whereas the empathy
is the understanding.
>> Where' the understanding come from?
>> And why are they having an emotional
respon? Oh, so they don't have emotions
>> at all
>> till after they've done all the
research.
>> When when when have I said any of that?
>> That's No, I'm saying there says that
sympathy follows empathetic response.
The empathetic response would mean you
have the information, which means they
don't have an emotional response at all
>> till after they understand everything.
>> That's what this claim would be.
>> No.
>> Okay. So, like this is the whole thing
that we're doing where you're saying, do
you know or do you not know? And then
we're talking about different phases of
it. So the example of the woman crying
on the street, you see her crying on the
street, you have an emotional response.
>> No, you can't because the empathetic
would have to come first, which would
mean you'd have to research first.
That's what
>> No, he's saying that. Yeah. Saying that
a sympathetic response can follow an
empathetic uh empathetic empathetic
response.
So you could see a woman crying. Okay,
I'll give I'll give you two examples.
You see a woman crying on the street,
right? You go down, you comfort her and
say, "What? What wrong? I cheat on my
husband." [__] you, [__] And then you
just you walk away from it, right?
Versus you sit down, you see a woman
crying on the street like, "Oh, what's
wrong, babe?" and all that stuff. Um, my
my woman uh my my husband was beating me
or whatever. Why' you go down there and
ask kind of thing? Then
>> why' you go down?
>> You're going to continue on the
sympathetic response after you.
>> Why' you go down there and ask?
>> But one sec. One second. You understand
the difference between those two
examples, correct?
>> I do. My point would be
>> Yeah. So, one simply follow. Yeah. Yeah.
One second. One one example in the first
example after the the empathetic
response there was no sympathy. So [__]
you [__] you cheated on your husband.
>> Second situation sympathy followed
because it was an unjustified or uh the
husband was beaten or whatever the [__]
Do you know what I mean? So he got
sympathy in one situation after the
empathetic response. In the other one he
didn't
>> I got it. I got it. Thank you.
>> Okay.
>> What was the driving force that led the
person to go ask them what's wrong or
how they're doing?
In both situations, he was seeing the
woman crying on the side of the street.
>> Why? You could just walk the other way.
Why would you go talk to that person?
>> Yeah. What? Why?
>> What drives that?
>> Because you've seen the woman crying on
the side of the street.
>> So, the reason you go check on the woman
is because the woman is there. There's
nothing else. Just
>> crying. So, so, so the obligation is you
automatically go check on them. No
emotion, no nothing. Just
>> somebody's crying. You have to go check
on them.
>> What have you not What did you not get
from the two examples? You said you
understand the two examples.
>> Yeah. So I was explaining the question
where it's saying how can sympathy
follows empathy or does empathy follow
sympathy. What I'm saying is in one
Yeah. Yeah. So in one example you have
an empathetic response followed by no
sympathy and then in another example you
have an empathetic response followed by
sympathy.
>> Great. This comment is literally saying
sympathy isn't
>> happening until after an empathetic
response has happened. If that is the
case, what drove a person to check on
the girl crying,
>> seeing the her crying on the side of the
street,
>> like you do realize it's not
Yeah. It it's not an isolated situation
where it's like you're driving your mind
tells you now kicking into empathy mode
now kicking into sympathy mode. What I'm
explaining is two situations like like
where where's the the clarification? You
know what I mean? In terms of like what
you're not understanding because what
I'm outlining here is that if you're
saying that h it's always a sympathetic
response, right?
>> No, I'm saying why
>> that Yeah.
>> Why is the person go check on that
person?
>> Why?
>> Again, I've I've answered that I think
three times now. No, you haven't.
Because you said because she's there on
the side.
>> Because she's crying
>> on the side of the street. And what
difference does that make?
>> In distress. Yes.
>> And what would lead you to check on her?
>> You observe the situation.
>> I've been in situations where I'm crying
in the middle of the street. I'll feel
empathy and then I feel sorry for her.
Then in that situation, she tells me the
story again. Empathetic response
followed by sympathetic response. Maybe
depending whether or not did the husband
cheat on her or did she cheat on her
husband.
>> So you don't So sympathy doesn't lead
people to check on people. Sympathy
comes after you've already checked on
the people. Okay, good. Check. Got it.
>> Again, I've I've outlined a situation.
I'll do it one more time. Maybe again, I
got what you're saying. Sounds so true
to reality. I do understand.
>> You see a woman You see a woman crying
on the middle of the street. Somebody's
crying and you see them. You have to
>> then Yeah. Yeah. Listen, you then employ
your empathy. You're like, I should go
over uh and and talk to her because I've
been there myself or my sister's been
there, etc., etc. That's the empathetic.
And then you have the sympathy saying,
"Oh, darling, are you okay? Do you want
a tissue?" All this kind of [__] Then
she tells me the story empathy response.
And then she says the that she her
husband cheated on her. Then it's like,
"Okay, there's the sympathy." So I've
explained the process where it's
empathy, sympathy, empathy, sympathy.
And then I I've also explained situation
where it's empathy, sympathy, empathy,
and then no sympathy.
>> No. Because the initial response that
you said is I've been in that place
before, which literally is a sympathetic
response. that moment.
>> No empathetic. And then you get
sympathetic where you go over with the
tissue, put the arm around her, how
things all kind of [__] And then
>> I implore another empathetic response
and I say, "What happened to you,
darling?" And then she starts giving out
all the facts. And then depending on
that,
>> she cheated on her husband or she didn't
cheat on her husband.
>> All right. All right. We're going to
>> I've explained how it goes empathetic,
sympathetic, but you sure.
>> All right, boys. That's going to wrap up
>> the Q&A. We got plenty of open payout,
man. Plenty of open payout. I'm sure
you're both staying for the open
payover. Am I correct?
>> All right. All right. Yeah. Yeah. So,
that's going to wrap up the Q&A portion.
All right. First off, thank you to
everyone in the live chat for all the
questions, the engagement, the support.
Again, this is uh what allows me to keep
bringing you these debates, the entire
Swords of Reason experience week after
week. I appreciate every single one of
you. And of course, a huge thank you to
our debaters uh for stepping into the
arena tonight and sharpening their ideas
in front of us all. Um
you've both said you're going to stay.
So here's what's happening next. We're
going to roll the debate outro song and
video that runs for about 4 minutes.
Perfect time for everybody to hit the
washroom, grab a drink, stretch your
legs, do whatever you need to do before
the chaos and chill open panel begins.
All right. Uh, and if you want to get
on, I'm going to say too, tonight's not
going to be as long as they normally
are. So, if you want to get on, get up
here right away. Okay. Um, we're gonna,
um, during the outro, I'm going to drop
the link in the chat there for anyone
who wants to join, come up, test your
ideas, continue the conversation. Uh,
anyone is welcome to come up, but
obviously come ready to think, question,
debate, and if you're coming to try and,
you know, spur over everyone, troll
people, bring your personal dramas,
you're just going to get muted and most
likely booted real quick. So, while
you're ahead with that idea, quit. Uh,
before we run the outro, one last
reminder, make sure you subscribe to
both debers. Uh, their links are in the
description. And if you're enjoying the
these debates that you see over here,
hit the subscribe on the Speak Easy
channel as well, so you don't miss any
more upcoming Swords of Reason battles
Mondays, Tuesdays, and Wednesdays. This
is where logic meets passion. All right,
let's uh roll the outro, and I will see
you all in a few minutes for the chaos
and chill.
Heat. Heat.
Step into the circle
where the echo collide.
Truth through the static. No place to
hide.
Iron tongue sharpening fire in our
breath.
We dance with conviction on the edge of
death.
Your words are full. Let's sm our
storms. Ideas forge where lightning
forms. No retreat, no treason. This is
the SEASON
WE CLASH OUR SWORDS OF REASON.
Cut through lies with steel precision.
No faith, no fear, just rock collision.
We clash our stars of reason.
Facts burn brighter than a prophet's
flame.
Eos crumble, but the truth remains.
Every scar a mark of thoughts crusade
in the battlefield of minds we've made.
Speak your truth but bear the cost.
Every claim can still get lost in the
war of voice and vision. Feel the
friction.
WE CLASH OUR SWORDS OF REASON.
No silence left for indeision.
Ideas break with love precision.
We crash our sword of reason.
Strike me with logic.
I'll play my proof.
WE CUT THROUGH CHAOS TO CARVE out truth.
Let the sparks fly. Let the echo scream.
This is no debate. It's a little dream.
WE CLASH OUR SWORDS OF REASON
in the storm of the collision.
Forcing fire pure precision.
We our swords are reason
but never die.
No surrender,
no retreat.
In the war of words, we find a be
for the reason.
Oh.
Welcome in everybody.
>> Hey,
>> what is up?
>> Holla. Holla. Holla.
>> Honey. Honey. Honey.
>> Welcome. Welcome. Welcome.
>> Welcome.
>> Hey. Can you hear me?
>> All right. Here we go. I'm up.
>> Did you choose to have it?
>> Okay.
Well, well, well, well. Uh, I have a lot
to say on this subject, actually. I I
you know, you always have a lot to say
about a lot of things, though.
>> So, no, but on this one particularly,
this one's a little bit of a sore
subject for me. Um, okay. So, you guys
went back and forth with semantics quite
a bit during the debate. So, and Abe
touched on this a little bit in the
beginning, but it needs to be a little
more fleshed out.
>> Um, in the the word when it was coined,
it was coined in 1909.
It was coined by a guy named Edward B.
Thatcher. Okay. And the original uh uh
word was from a German word called uh
which Abe brought up uh infong, right?
That word translated means feeling into.
The reason this guy psychiatrist by the
way, shocker, h the reason he brought he
coined the word was he had art students
and he wanted them to uh physic like
mentally project themselves into art to
feel what it feels like to be art. Okay.
So, so these nut jobs were sitting
around like standing there. Oh, this
what it feels like to be the Mona Lisa.
This is what it feels like to be a a
house.
>> This is what it feels like to be a
statue. All right.
>> So ridiculous.
>> So then later on uh you get into uh like
the 1920s30s, it changes again.
Psychology takes it and runs with it
again. It goes from art to human
perception. And then it enters into a
definition of entering into another
person's emotional frame of reference.
Okay, still you know pretty close to
what you know the human version of that
is. Um and then go into the '90s it gets
you know uh a few different definitions
kind of the stuff we see now. But even
if you go to Google right now and you
type in define empathy it comes up with
the ability to understand and share the
feelings of another. You don't have
access to another mind. So it's a
self-refuting definition. It doesn't
make any [__] sense.
And I can go into the neural stuff too.
The mirror neuring. We want to talk
about that. We want to talk about that
like uh hack job where that came from.
We can discuss that. We can discuss the
macac monkeys and how that they first
found that in the 1970s and it was based
on motor function and then they inferred
it was emotional in humans. It's not
actually proven. So, we could talk about
that all day if you want. And by the
way, Abe, stop granting the thing in
question to prove the thing in question.
>> Well, no. I I even did that in the
question about the bicycle. If I call
the bicycle a different name and say
that it flies, does that make it true?
No. It I may call it that, but it
doesn't make it real.
>> Like if
people will say that like rally cars
fly, you know what I mean? Like fly
around the corner. Something doesn't
have to be real for people to act like
it is.
>> People act like empathy is real, but I'm
not granting that it is a real thing,
but people are living as though it is.
>> We explain We explain that through the
the
>> No, you explain, not we.
>> Yeah. Okay. Yeah. Okay. If I have a
flight simulator, am I flying a plane?
No. This is the same thing.
>> Is emotion Is emotion cognitive?
>> No. But you know
>> it's subjective to the person.
>> Yeah. Yeah. So, but it's an actual like
response. Okay. But when we're talking
about like emotional response based on
your subjective understanding of the
situation.
>> Yeah. That that's applying like a
cognitive like uh thought experiment
that you're putting yourself.
>> But is the thing you're experiencing
subjective?
>> Putting yourself in those shoes isn't
empathy. You're
>> just remember boys, there's more there's
going to be more of you on on uh Abee's
side here. So, let's
>> Wait, really? I thought I was I came up
here based on what I saw in chat. I
thought was going to be outdoor. I
thought this is great. I don't want to
>> No, I I I see it seems like it's going
to be more on uh on the I see I'm with
>> Regardless, let each other answer. Let
each other answer. You know what I'm
saying?
>> And uh we're in the after panel. I may
give my take on this later. I have I I
believe I have the kill shot for one of
the positions on this. Uh
>> I'm I'm still on the fence, everybody.
>> I believe I do. But I'll tell you guys
later. Go ahead.
>> To to go back to uh like that example
that like Abe was talking about like
where you see the woman that's crying on
the street, you have that empathetic
response where I'm going to go over.
I've been in that position myself and
all this kind of [__] You put yourself
in that shoes. I've been crying on the
street before. I'm going to go over.
Give a bit of sympathy hand around all
this kind of [__] Then you again apply
another empathetic response. Be willing
to hear out her story. Right. and find
out
from her story. You gather that, oh no,
she cheated on her husband. [__] that
[__] So like that's an example of an
empathetic response that's not followed
by sympathetic response. I mean,
>> yeah, I just realized chaos is up here,
too. So he's he's on the other side.
>> Yeah. Like like all all I got to say all
I got to say here is like um number one,
personally, I think uh the definition uh
definitely
uh empathy and sympathy have both been
wrongfully stated. First of all,
sympathy is quite well known to be a for
a far more uh removed position than
empathy. So like for instance, right, if
uh somebody get somebody uh gets hit by
a car and you just walk by, right? And
you're just like, "Yeah, that sucks."
You know, "Oh [__] that's shitty." And
you just walk by. That's typically known
to be a sympathetic response. The
ability to Yes. Yes, it is. It's
literally I have it pulled up right
here. No,
>> you feel sorry for someone's situation
but remain detached from the actual
>> emotion. No, a feeling or express
sincere uh look up uh Webster, I don't
know, or wherever you got your [__]
definition from. A feeling or expression
of sincere concern for someone who has
experienced something difficult or
painful. A sincere concern. You're going
to
>> have a sincere concern but still be
emotionally detached about it. You can
still be emotionally detached from it,
right? Like that's the whole point. This
is why this is why people just to make
sure I can read it one more time.
>> Right. Like like and when it comes to
empathy.
>> What was that?
>> When you have the prompt up really quick
so I can get a quick read on it one more
time just to make sure I have it right.
>> When you when you have a general right
here.
>> Thank you.
>> When you have a general understanding of
something, right, that doesn't
necessarily mean you have to know every
single aspect of something, right? If
somebody if if your best friend gets
cheated on, right, and you're empathetic
with the situation, you if you've been
cheated on, you're capable of
understanding the situation. That's an
understanding sympathy. That's sympathy.
>> That's that's not sympathy.
Definitionally, it's ingress
is correct. You don't know what the [__]
you're talking about. You're you're
going into this this this woo woo
psychology nonsense. Look, everyone here
and and everyone right who is into this
like, okay, empathy is [__] real and
just because psychologists say it is. I
look forward to the future when
psychologists come out and they say, you
know what, furry genders are real and
this is where it is on the map on the
brain and we're going to like, you know,
have this, you know, this is a real I
want you guys to save the chest. Yes.
>> No, you're taking you're you're taking
it too far. But there are no Yes, you're
taking it too far. It's called a
reductio. It's called a reductio.
Okay, hold on. Wait, let me bring in You
were talking about empathy. These are
things that we need to be aware of even
on Battlefield, right?
>> Empathy is real.
>> Okay. Well, let's bring in our handy
dandy AFP,
right?
>> Yeah. All that
regulation, I'm pretty sure.
>> This is regulation, right?
>> And what And is that based on
psychology?
>> Um, there is psychology in here. Yes.
>> Okay. Yeah. I don't grant it.
>> Well, then how are we supposed to say
that our system is not built on it?
>> How are we not supposed to build on it?
science. We're literally telling
soldiers that this is what we're doing.
It's psychology.
>> Yeah. And and we also told soldiers that
they get trans they could get
transitions in the military recently.
That so they took that back.
>> They took it back, but one time they
did, didn't they? At one time they did,
didn't they?
>> You still need You still need to take
>> Answer the question. At one time they
did, didn't they?
>> Uh I I'm not sure.
>> Maybe a waiver. Maybe a waiver for one
and and that person just to see if it
worked. But it didn't work. The test
failed.
>> Yeah. Well,
>> test
question. Hold on. Hold on. Did Mo. Did
they let women try to be a seal?
>> They I think it's open, but no one's
ever passed it.
>> They What again? So trans didn't pass
it. I'm sorry. So what do you want me to
do?
>> What's your point here? This is an
thing. Well, no, but you
>> you're saying that they allowed they
allowed trans in, but they got a waiver
to do it probably, right?
>> Let me riff for a second.
>> Put in a a caveat with what you're
talking about.
>> There's seals. What part of taking out
of the
>> that transitioned after
the waiver
>> was built on like you can't have all
waivers,
>> you can't have autism and [__] like
that. Um, now let's let's get back to
the the empathy. Whether it's subjective
to people in chat or whether it's not.
We're just talking about should it play
a role in shaping society.
>> To be fair, that's not my angle, but I
get it.
>> Hold on. We're looking at the prompt,
right? And what we're trying to do is is
if you're saying that it should if it
should play a role in shaping our
society, then we shouldn't build
Christian societies.
>> What are you talking about? I'm not even
sure where the other
explain.
>> Well, because empathy plays a big role
in the Bible, does it not? And how we
run that. Okay. So, turn the other cheek
doesn't have it.
>> Care. Kindness.
>> Kindness.
>> Kindness. Yeah. And all that stuff is a
bit of empathy, right?
>> No. I don't grant empathy.
>> Empathy was coined in the 1909 by some
quack.
>> Wait. No. No. No. This is perfect.
Average. Do you
>> do you need to understand? Do you need
to understand
>> it was 1909 about people
sisters let us stand your neighbor
gospel
what you're doing is you're taking your
neighbor you're taking a small scale
what I'm doing is I'm taking like I need
to I need to understand I need to but as
a leader of a country I need to
understand the majority of the values of
the people that I'm uh representing do I
not
>> that's called knowledge again which and
you need to have you need to know what
they're feeling. You need to understand
their feel. Yeah. Well, because some
people don't actually know what they
want. Hold on. So, there's a good So,
hold on. There's a good study by Malcolm
uh by uh Howard Moscowitz when he talks
about uh pasta sauces, right? Have you
guys heard about this? So, Howard
Moscowitz was a a psychopysicist and he
worked for Nes Cafe and Progresso. And
what he did is he went and tried he
worked for Campbell uh and Progresso
trying to do the the pasta sauce, right?
And he came up with this uh final
solution that people don't know what
they want, right? So sometimes you need
to you need to understand what they want
and and because they can't tell you what
they want. So you need to put yourself
in the empathetical shoes. So as a
leader so that because sometimes they're
not vocally going to be able to tell you
what they need.
>> You need to sympathize
>> and you need to empathize. No. Empathize
would say that you have to feel with
them. You have to feel what they feel,
not you want to know what they know.
>> You can you can you can you can attempt
to feel what they feel. It's not what
he's saying. You're what you're saying
is you're taking it quite literal.
You're taking it quite literal when it's
very it's a very it's a very loose term
of what they feel. Like if I if I say
what I want you to feel like what it
feels like to be in my shoes, it means I
just want you to understand what it's
like to go through sympathize with my
plight. Yes. Sympathy. share what I'm
going to do. Real quick, what does what
does to others as you would have them do
to you? What does that mean as a
Christian?
>> Being sympathetic to uh their plight.
>> Okay. So then what are you defining what
are you defining as sympathy?
>> I just gave you the definition.
No, that's backwards again. That's
backwards to to
>> do unto other
do unto you. Yeah, that's that's
selfdirected. You would only know that
subjectively
>> which mean that's outward directed. It's
not outward
to others.
>> What is others?
>> People you
>> Yes. How is that self telling you what
to do to others? Because of Yes. Of what
others would do to you based on your
wood.
Correct. you have this whole thing of
like I can't like put a wire into your
brain and feel the exact emotion you're
feeling at that time. This is a [__]
argument because I can just take the
same logical precinct user sentence
saying emotions are [__] Emotions
aren't real. Sympathy is not real.
>> Yeah. Well, I mean in 200 in 2001
if mo if hold on really quickly I just
wanted to make this if empathy is not
real then can mothers not feel their
children if empathy not exists there and
their unborn children
>> feel their children
>> their unborn children like
them they're connected so like can they
not connected avarest their nervous
systems are connected in the womb
>> again again uh there's there is proven
fact that women can empathize with are
unborn children.
>> Okay. So, for me to empathize, this is a
great argument, Azarus. For me to
empathize with you, I need you to be in
my stomach.
>> Gravity
system connected.
>> You're saying that it doesn't exist. I
want to make sure I want to make sure
that we at least make it exist first,
right? I just want to make sure the word
exists.
>> You But you just said it didn't exist at
all. I just want to make sure that it
exists at all. Right. Let's just make
sure.
>> I wouldn't even necessarily say that's
everything either. It's just uh the
mother having love and feeling literally
physically feeling their child
>> and having an emotional connection.
>> Surely an emotional and
>> mental connection.
>> Yep. Okay. So, so in 2000
>> Okay. Okay. Okay. Aris, could mothers,
you know, emotionally connect with their
child before 1909 or No, it just didn't
[__] exist then.
>> Right. There could have been there could
empathy.
>> Oh, yeah. It's called sympathy.
>> I mean, maybe. Uh again, people don't
use the word avarest anymore. They use
the word greed.
>> That is a very cool name by the way.
>> So I'm just saying in in perspective
like the words change,
>> you're muted.
How you how are you able to square the
circle here? Uh uh Mo, cuz you just said
that you the mother can emotionally
connect to to her child, but she cannot
feel the same feelings
>> be inside of her same body. Yeah. So
>> no, you said emotionally connect. No,
no, you said emotionally connect with
the child, but then you said
Love and emotion. You love going to do a
[__] question. Don't don't run it
because you're saying that they can
emotion connect, but they can't feel
what they're feeling. Is love an
emotion. Is love an emotion?
>> Oh, yeah. You won't answer the question.
You're going to run.
>> What you mean? I'm the one that's that's
pointing out the distinction here that
you're saying that you can emotionally
connect with someone
>> with love.
>> Can you You can emotionally connect with
someone, but you can't share their
feelings. That's not directly access
cannot share their emotions but you can
connect with them emotionally
and
makes no sense. I I can connect my phone
to the computer but my computer cannot
share my my my phone. It makes no sense.
>> Are you in the mind?
>> Yes. I'm giving you a physical example
of you saying I can connect my phone to
the computer but I cannot share the
files with my
no sense. I can connect with them
emotionally, but I cannot share. Answer
the question, by the way. Never answer
the question, by the way.
>> Terak, you have an emotion. Never
question. They're not the same. What's
the question?
>> I said is em is love an emotion.
>> Yes.
>> Again, you
Okay. No, I didn't. I'll answer whatever
you want. What?
>> Yeah. You You're the one. You're the
one. Explain what the difference between
connecting with someone emotionally and
then sharing their emotion. What is the
difference between those two?
>> Because you can connect to them on a
love level. You can connect to them on
caring, sympathy. That's how you
connect. You don't you don't you don't
understand.
Shut the [__] up for a second. Listen.
You don't have a connection to their
mind to know exactly what they're
feeling or their emotional state. No.
>> So, you can't connect with their
emotions. So, the mother can't connect
with the child's emotions.
>> Oh my gosh.
>> Look. Hey guys, I got a great
>> What is the disconnect here?
>> Yeah. Because on one hand, you're saying
it's impossible. It's impossible to
share emotions. That's that's on the one
hand. But then you're also saying that
the mother can connect emotionally with
her child.
>> It's impossible to feel saying you share
the emotions body.
>> I can't feel what's in you and you can't
feel what's in me. We have
>> Yeah. You're talking about
physicalation. We're talking about
emotion. You're making the claim. You're
making the claim that a mother can
emotionally connect with her child, but
you cannot share emotions with someone.
>> Guys, can I say one thing?
>> Individuals.
>> Just trying to get one out there. Does
anyone here?
>> You know, Jerry, even if I regret that.
So, so by your what you're saying right
there, your definition, for us to
connect with people, we have to have
them in our bodies and connect to our
nervous system. Great argument,
>> Terry.
Emotions, physical.
>> Has any of you lost a child or lost a
parent?
>> How about three grandparents?
>> Yes.
>> I've lost Yes, I've lost I've lost uh
family members and parents. Yes.
>> Okay. So, then has someone who hasn't
lost a grandparent come up and said,
"Hey, look, I'm really sorry for your
loss." You know that's sympathizing with
them because they haven't experienced
the same pain that you have. Okay. So
then now take that to someone who has
lost their parent. They have a deep
understanding like oh my gosh like
that's someone who really cared about
you. I know the situation or you know I
mean not your specific but I can relate
more to what you're feeling. That's the
>> Okay. Okay. Okay. So wait wait wait in
even that scenario go with that right
both parents people lost someone they
both can you know you're saying this is
what empathy is uh do each of those
people have the exact same emotional
state do they have the exact same
psychology do they have the exact same
um tolerance for pain they have the
exact same stoic mindset do they have
the exact same and even if I grant all
of that even if I all of that even if I
grant all of that it's still not a way
to to to suck out their emotions and put
it into your brain.
>> That's like that's like saying that's
like saying just because LeBron James
and Michael Jordan play differently that
neither one of them understand what it's
like to play basketball. That's exactly
the same. You're saying the exact same
thing.
>> No, that's not connected.
It is. It's the same. No, it's not.
You're entire argument is baseless.
There's neurological evidence of this.
>> No one is saying it's anything about
mind reading. Or maybe
who said that? Who said that?
>> Hold on. Hold on. Who said mind reading?
>> That's actually mind reading.
>> Average question.
>> Everybody spin half. That's another
piece of that puzzle.
>> Yeah, but I'm going to let you finish
this one out. I'm not going to talk. Go
ahead.
>> No, I don't care, man. Go ahead.
>> Yeah. Yeah. I'll wait to finish it out.
>> Hey. Hey. Uh Mo,
>> I'll be I'll be benevolent today.
>> Mind reading is witchcraft.
>> I'm not going to be nasty because I I
agree that a lot
is is like [__]
>> A lot of kind re a lot of it kind of
>> pseudocience.
>> Yeah, it becomes cabala. It becomes
>> Listen, I agree. I agree with that too,
Trench. I agree that like I mean me and
you've had this discussion with like
ADHD and whatnot or how I don't agree
with that and whatnot, but this is this
is different, right? uh in a way what
I'm trying to say what is what I'm
trying to state here is that loosely
stated right empathy this isn't the
question I'm just making a statement
here
>> mo loosely stated that empathy as a
loose concept right ought to be taken in
uh
theory in ideas when when you're uh a
leader uh and you're shaping society
that's all I'm getting at You should you
should take it you should take it a
loose a loose description of what the
others or your followers are feeling. Um
because a lot of those followers, no
offense to them, are too dumb to tell to
under to speak for themselves.
>> Yeah. But
let's
respond that they're that they're
defining like empathy and whether you
believe in it or not. I think.
>> All right, wait. Let me let me let me
respond to
uh real quick. We got uh 10 pounds in
from Shazzy. This empath is loving and
understands body language. Nasty people
have no empathy. Thank you for that,
Shazzy. I have said I don't have empathy
people.
>> So Avarest to the point that uh you just
brought up about leading and you know we
we'll live in this fictitious world
where empathy is real and that uh we
should have empathy for people. I would
say even then that's a that's a dumb uh
way to write policy because if that if
you go down that line of thought then we
should just open up the borders and all
the leagues should come over because we
don't listen again because no listen
stop listen cuz what you're doing is
you're you're taking like uh a whole and
like I'm saying what's best for the
people of my land and if immigrating too
many people is bad for my land
again but
>> no you're only being selected sometimes
but again selected from the feminist
select
but not have an empathy for the
feminists aren't
>> voluntary act again it should just play
a a small role not a big role but a
small role in
>> okay so we should be so point we we
should be empathetic to the feminist
then right
>> yep
>> listen
I just
explain this I don't know if you keep
doing this intentionally
what you I cleared this up. Yeah, I I
cleared this up. You're being
selectively empathetic. You're being
more emp you're having all the empathy
in the world for the eagle immigrants,
but you're not having any empathy for
your own country.
>> I'll even I'll even bite the bullet.
I'll even bite the bullet. I'm very
empathetic with these [__] with these
feminists. That's why I'm in such anger
when I'm when I'm debating them because
we're both empathetically angry at each
other. So, of course, we're in the same
feet when we're when with these
feminists.
>> What are you talking about?
>> I'm questioning I was looking for a
better clip of you saying I empathize
with feminists. But that'll that you
know you were very careful with your
words there.
>> Yeah. Well, obviously because when you
attack a feminist, you want to make sure
you meet them at their level
empathetically speaking. If they're
coming at you with the chainsaw, I want
to make sure I'm coming back with a
bigger chainsaw.
>> But why does that require you
experiencing their emotional state? Why
not just use sympathy? Why not just say
you're sympathetic to their plight? Why
not say you're sympathetic to their
plight?
>> I'm not I'm not sympathetic to their
plight. It means nothing at that point.
>> So, but you're empathetic to their play.
>> Yeah, cuz I can feel what they're
feeling. I just don't care about it.
>> You can feel what it feels like to be a
woman.
>> Oh, no. I can feel what it feels like to
be outcasted.
>> It's not an either or
>> or to be angry.
>> Do I Does Do you guys understand this
though?
>> Does that make sense? You're You're
cherrypicking a certain feeling, but I
could feel other feelings other than a
woman, right? I can feel as angry as a
feminist. Yeah.
So,
>> well, I'm just saying that these are
things that I could feel, right? Like
angry or happy as these people.
>> You're using the thing to prove the
thing is not sympathetic.
>> No, no, no. We we we
sympathetic.
>> Yeah.
But have no empathy.
>> Real quick.
>> Yeah. So like in in terms of like we
drew the distinction the distinction the
distinction the distinction was
understanding being able to hear out the
story and be able to extract out the
facts and then put yourself in that
situation. That's what the empathy is.
That's what you does not what you just
said there you just said there hold on
listen for a second trick. What you just
listed there why does that require
empathy and not just talking to someone
>> because sometimes we call that one. No
no no run. Why would you call that?
>> I'm not running. We call it talking a
discussion.
>> What if they don't talk? So So
for your for your position here, you're
saying that we should be you should be
sympathetic. You should be sympathetic
and talk to people.
>> What you're just what your description
you just used. You described
understanding and knowledge and of the
story like that. All that can be
acquired through talking and having
sympathy
>> and we call that empathy. Correct. So it
does exist.
>> No sympathy.
>> So so hearing out so someone's like so
not hearing out the story. We should
only be sympathetic. We don't need to
hear the story.
>> Sitting down as a human and and
understanding the perception of someone
else through dialogue.
>> And what is that called? Is that called
empathy? Does that exist?
>> No. Sympathy. It's called dialogue.
>> That doesn't exist. Understanding
someone else.
>> I don't need aut
job uh madeup word from the 1909 to give
a
>> look. No, listen.
But hold on. It was Hold on. before.
Don't let him run from this made up
word. Speak easy. No. Let him. No. No.
word. That made up over each other. It's
a word. It was a combination. Hold up.
This word isn't used.
>> No. Hold up. Hold up a second. Nobody's
hearing anything when you guys are
talking over each other.
>> This word Mo said there he said he said
understanding the perception of someone
is what? is talk discussing it with them
to understand their situation and having
sympathy for it.
>> No.
>> What is understanding the perception of
someone?
>> Well, you can't have you don't have
direct access to another person's mind.
So, you'd have to sit there with a
dialogue and have a conversation and
then you can sympathize with their
plight, whatever they describe what that
thing is. You don't sit there and like
psychically link with them and then know
what their emotional state is. Yeah. Do
you think any This is what I want. Hold
on. Hold on. I want anyone Hold up,
guys. Hold up. Do you think anyone
serious is
>> is using the definition of empathy?
>> No. No, no, no. Listen, I'll I'll be
emotionally connected physically like
that.
>> I I get it. Right. Current understanding
in uh the populace is a mis is
misunderstanding. They're not they don't
understand where the word came from.
They don't know the history.
>> Well, it doesn't sound like Hold on.
Hold on. asking you, do you think anyone
uses definitions changed, so I don't
care about all this. Do you think Do you
think
>> I was going to land a
>> anyone uses the definition of empathy to
mean you're physically in someone else's
brain
>> or they use these guys? Hold on, hold
on. What? Can I qualify? Can I qualify?
>> They they don't, but they use uh what
they are describing is sympathy. It's
not empathy.
>> No. So what happened was in 1909
no understanding the perception of
someone is different than sympathy.
>> That was no hold on back up to what
Terry said. He was giving me a
description and I said that's sitting
down and have a conversation off the
list that he gave me. So we we've
shifted like
>> a lot here.
>> That's because we're trying to get
>> No, but what Terry Tak you're muted. But
what Terry is saying is is because
you're not explaining
you're not explaining what in what
you're saying because you're saying that
understanding the perception of someone
is not empathy. But that's
>> you're saying that you can't you're not
able to understand them is what you're
saying. You literally can't understand
the person.
>> Come on, bro.
>> It's
always takes advantage of the fact I
don't mute nobody. Everyone shut the
[__] up for a minute, guy.
>> Yeah. I'd like to have this dialogue
with easy for a second. clarify
something.
>> So if we're if we're going
>> are you saying that understanding the
perception of someone which is empathy
the definition of it is not empathy
>> P is not P.
>> No another example
>> that's not the definition
>> the word from the German uh the German
word it comes from translates into
feeling into.
>> In fact we were saying just now it means
feeling into
where does it come from medical journal.
Hey, wait. Easy. Do this. Go to Google.
Go to Google. Easy. Type in define
empathy and and read what comes up.
>> The ability to understand and share the
feelings. He was a Harvard. He was a
>> Yeah. So, how do you share in their
feelings?
>> Inspired. Look right here. Like this.
Like this.
>> How do you How do you understand and
share in their feelings?
>> Shut up. I can't hear easy and [__]
mo. Godamn it, bro.
>> You [__] caveman over there. I'm
trying to hear two people have dialogue
and I can't [__] hear them. Shut up,
you [__] caveman.
>> Can I throw one out there for you?
>> Look, your sympathy or your empathy,
right? We're saying they're different.
Okay, so obviously it's all males on the
panel here. How many of you have
experienced child birth?
>> Well, all of us, right? But we're all
sympathetic. Yeah, we're all sympathetic
to the whatever they got to go through.
I'm glad I don't got to go through it
right now. another woman say, "Oh, I
empathize with you because maybe they've
they've had the child." You know what
I'm saying?
>> All right, let's go with that. Let's go
with that. Uh, so the pain tolerance for
both women are exact.
>> No, but I'm saying they've at least had
a child.
>> Okay,
>> you're taking it.
>> Did they both Did they both have the
same term of delivery?
>> I'm trying to make it dumb down so we
can make a clear distinction here.
Sympathy is
>> We can go.
>> We can't get any dumber down with these.
We can go we can go with it. We can go
with the pain index halfway there. But
you still don't get the methodology.
>> Pain index is a chart.
>> Does it actually tell you what it
actually means to feel it is when we
start
index is a chart. So you can sympathize
with someone who's broken their leg.
Like oh my god that looks really bad.
That sucks. But you can sympathize.
Yeah. But you can't empathize their leg.
>> If you've broken your leg, it's like you
have a deeper understanding. Oh my god,
you're going to be in six days.
>> There's studies. There's studies. There
are studies involving electrical shocks,
right? There's an entire pain matrix,
right? And and when they when these
shocks were fired, okay, including in
sensory areas, when they watched their
partner received a shock, only the
effective emotional parts of the matrix,
i.e. the interior insula and the
interior uh singulate cortex fired. And
this is only in response to an
empathetic response definition.
>> Yeah. What? No, what you're describing
there, you get the same reaction when
they map the brain when they watch like
CGI movies and action stuff and all
those things light up. You're not
actually feeling the exact thing that
the person is feeling that you're
seeing.
>> You're capable of understanding. You're
still capable of understanding. You
don't have to have understanding.
>> No, to the same degree.
>> One sec. One sec. One sec. One sec. I've
experienced I've experienced death. Just
because I've experienced death and
you've experienced death, does that mean
because you've experienced death in a
different way that I don't that I don't
understand what death is?
>> Maybe guys, I think you guys just don't
understand. Like, can you ask Let me ask
you something, Mo.
>> Can we share the same meal without
taking the exact same bites?
>> Uh, yeah, sure. But that's not
>> Oh, so we can share the same feelings
without having the exact identical is
watching. Is watching is looking at food
eating it. Is looking at food IS NOT
LOOKING AT food eating it doesn't mean
is looking at food eating it is looking
at food eating it is looking at food
eating it looking at food eating it
that's what does that even [__] what's
that question even mean right now
>> he's trying to say that you're looking
at food you're not actually experiencing
the taste
>> you're not actually experiencing it
>> yeah but if you sadness I can be sad for
the thing you're sad for where
>> is doing a lot of lifting here for you
exact same emotion
>> sharing a lot of lifting here for thinks
that sharing means duplicate.
You're refraraming this. You're
refraraming this share thing.
>> No, you're refraraming it. You're
redefining share.
>> Nobody's defining share. Share does not
mean duplicate.
>> In what [__] world does it mean
duplicate? Explain to me when I made the
argument that sharing is like
>> you're saying sharing means that you
have to BE PHYSICALLY IN EACH OTHER'S
brain to share the same feelings. No,
>> you don't have to.
>> The you don't have to have
stop answer the question. Yes or no?
>> You're not. You're answering my
questions.
>> Yeah. See,
>> you run answer my question. No, I'll
answer. Come on. Go answer. Run. No, I'm
going to run from this [__]
>> I ASK A QUESTION. I asked a question. I
asked a question since you want to yell
over me and not let me respond. Go
ahead.
>> No, go ahead. Ask me the question.
>> I'm waiting.
>> Oh, yeah. Just interject real quick.
>> Only quiet when I don't talk. I love it.
>> Yeah. So, in in terms of like this whole
>> You were redirecting my you were
redirecting my what I what I said to
something else. Oh, you said how can you
share something without physically being
in the same body?
>> How can you share feelings without
physically being in the same body? How
can you SHARE A MEAL WITHOUT PHYSICALLY
TAKING THE SAME BITES?
>> SHARE DOESN'T mean duplicate.
>> So, you need to start looking at the
definitions of words before you
>> I don't know where you're going with
this.
>> No, I don't know what you're talking
about cuz you're you're going off this.
I don't even know where this came in.
Yeah, you guys have been
>> you guys have been based the same thing.
It's impossible to share an emotion.
Someone else is probably the exact same
emotion.
>> Somebody's feelings unless you're
physically in their brain.
>> No. All right, let me clarify. I think
we're talking I think I identified this.
When you say share, I uh with someone
else's emotions, I would say
>> everybody says share.
>> Okay, fine. Fine. Everyone says share.
Fine. If everyone says share in someone
else's emotions, that would not give you
the exact feeling of that emotion. You
would just be subjectively in your mind
relating to what
>> fair feelings.
>> I
>> I never said you couldn't.
>> SO THERE IS EMPATHY.
>> THANK YOU.
>> NO, I didn't.
>> I think he's wrong.
>> No,
only if you only if you pigeon hole it.
Only if you pigeon hole. That's That's
complete straw, man. You know it. That's
complete straw, man. I said from the
beginning,
>> you said empathy doesn't exist.
>> It doesn't
exist because
>> the word
can respond or you just you just want to
rant. You just want to rant and respond.
Go ahead. Repeat what I already said. Go
ahead. Go ahead. I'm going to bet you a
million dollars you're going to repeat
exactly what I said. Go ahead.
>> I was going through the definition when
I first came in here.
>> Go through it. Go through it.
>> Yeah. It it so the definition first came
from uh a guy who coined it 1909 and it
it translates literally from a German
word that uh long feeling into all right
and then later in no
transliteration of all English words no
English words mean anything
>> and and you're wrong with the 1909
you're you're wrong with actually
I actually went down through I went down
through the history.
>> I went down through the history at half
story. Nobody knows the definition.
>> Went down through the history and now we
went through sharing. Yeah, you can
share with someone that doesn't give you
access to their mind.
>> One or the other or the other.
>> So I didn't concede [__]
>> No. Yeah. Well, and it's not about
>> doesn't mean access to someone's mind
>> because you guys are virtues. My
question if sympathy is even real
because are we talking about being
sympathetic? Are we talking about
execution?
>> If you type into Google, it comes up
with a definition. Sympathy even the
ability to understand.
>> Are we EVEN REAL?
>> OKAY. STOP. STOP. TRENCH. STOP. The
ability. We just read this and we went
through this. I told you you were going
to repeat this. The ability to stop,
Trench. The ability to understand and
share the feelings of another. You
already can see if you can share the
feelings of another. Can I understand
the feelings of another?
>> Not completely.
>> You can't.
>> No, you don't have that. You don't have
access to their mind. You can
>> understanding means having access to
their mind.
>> I say completely.
>> Can I Does it say completely?
>> You asked me a different question.
>> You asked me a different question. You
asked me a different question.
>> Mo
the ability to understand, not
understand completely. So stop stop
making up your own definition for the
word.
>> I'm not making my own definition.
>> Engage with the definition. Do you have
the ability to understand how I feel in
this moment?
>> No access to your mind. I don't have
access TO YOUR MIND.
>> NO. YOU DON'T READ SOCIAL CUES, DOG.
WHAT ARE YOU TALKING ABOUT?
>> AND WHAT DOES THAT give me?
>> No ability.
>> OKAY, LET'S GO THAT. Let's go that way.
HOW DO CRIMINALS BEHAVIOR? HOW DO WE
UNDERSTAND HOW CRIMINALS BEHAVE? How do
we understand that? YOU KNOW WHAT?
ANSWER ME THIS, MO. HOW the [__] does
anybody understand and determine what a
baby wants from crying? Explain that to
me. If empathy isn't real, that's
>> because if a baby cry if Okay, can I
answer?
>> Yeah. Go ahead.
>> Baby's crying. Baby's crying. It needs
food. It needs to be burped or it needs
to poop or it needs a diaper change.
>> How do we determine that?
>> Yeah. SAY HOW BY DOING ALL FIVE AT THE
SAME TIME CRY. OH, YOU must mean the
[__]
>> Are you serious right now?
>> Yes, I am serious.
>> Why? You you check the baby. You burp
it. Oh, it doesn't need a burp. Oh, it
needs diaper train.
>> Is that really how it happens, bro?
Really? Every time the baby cries, you
do a step by step. Oh, actually, it must
maybe it needs a burp. It didn't [__]
eat at all, but Oh,
>> okay. They need then maybe it needs
change or maybe it's hungry.
>> Right. Right. You're able to determinate
off of what's its food
>> by a process of elimination. That's not
empathy.
>> The baby hasn't eaten. Oh, it's probably
>> that's a process of elimination. That
has nothing to do with empathy.
>> That's you trying one sec. That's you
trying to understand what the baby's
going through.
>> The baby feels
>> No, that's a process of elimination. Has
nothing empathy.
>> Are you serious right now?
>> What's the goal? What's the goal
argument? to understand and share the
feelings of another. You literally
conceded we can do both. I I don't know
why we're even
>> Well, he called it
>> my point is that thing. Sympathy is a
different word.
>> That's That's what I was trying to say,
too. But
>> I'm just
>> Well, yeah. Sympathy more uh accurately
describes a lot of what these people are
saying when they describe empathy. Yes.
>> Look, I know it's a hot topic. So then
so then what would you so then how would
so then how would you explain how would
you explain then if sympathy and empathy
are essentially from your perspective
essentially one and the same is what I'm
gathering from this right and then we're
just separating and we're just we're
just saying we're just using the term
empathy to describe a sympathetic
response as as you guys are so
eloquently putting it that's the case
then how do you how do you explain then
somebody that is capable of quote
unquote from your position
being sympathetic but still being able
to be removed from it. So what's the
difference then? So what's what's the
difference? How do you explain uh people
with psychosis who are incapable? Hold
on, I'm not done. How do you explain
people with psychosis who are incapable
of displaying sympathy but are capable
of mirroring? And this is called dark
empathy in terms of in terms of
neuroscience, not even psychos.
Yes. This this is an active actually
management map brain
>> so in neuros how how is it able to how
how no this is it is with humans
actually by the way we have no evidence
of psychotic
>> we don't have psychotic we don't have
psychotic monkeys so mirror neurons
don't prove we feel other's emotions
they prove we can model them
are you guys saying sympathy is real and
that's what it is
>> in They're essentially They're
essentially saying they're essentially
saying that sympathetic response.
>> Wait a second.
>> I'm saying it's the only thing we can
measure each.
>> You know what that means?
>> Uh it was in the 1500s. Well, hold on.
>> So, how do you have sympathy, my friend?
How do you have actually waiting?
You're cherryicking about being
cherryicking. You're cherry PICKING THE
SAME THING YOU DID.
>> Let me finish. Let me finish. Let me
finish.
>> When it was Can I You don't want to hear
my point. You just want to yell at me.
I'll just sit here and yell at me, but I
won't I won't ever give it a point. Go
ahead.
>> Finish before you started talking. But
go ahead.
>> Hey, speak.
>> When it was when it was coined uh in the
1500s, it actually had a few different
meanings and one was suffering with uh
others and and another one was uh it
might have been the one that you
mentioned, but the point is it had
different
>> Yeah. Same thing. Yeah. So, you can
>> the origin. Here's here's a key. Wait,
wait, wait. Here's the key thing. Hold
on. Can I finish? Can I finish? Can I
finish? Can I Can I finish sentence?
>> We speak English, not
>> Can I finish? Can I finish my sentence?
>> So, uh, if we if we're going back to the
originals of of the different words and
stuff. I Nohere in sympathy does it ever
require you to project yourself into
someone else's mind. That's the problem.
>> Same feeling. How do you have the same
feeling without projecting?
>> That's a projection into somebody else's
mind.
>> No, it's not. What is the same feeling
then?
>> Well, you could say uh you could say
>> a meal with the same I both hit my uh
foot and it's it's like we both hit
we're suffering together.
>> Understanding to me.
>> Yeah. Well,
>> you can't understand people's feelings.
Thank you.
>> From a subjective understanding. Yeah.
That's not the kill shot you think it
is. Easy.
>> Whatever you think it is.
>> That's not the kill shot you think it
is, buddy.
How many how many examples do we have to
give this
nice? The origin of nice. I was looking
at the origin of some English words
here.
>> Ignorant. Ignorant.
>> Nice would mean ignorant. So is that
what we're talking about? When we say
nice.
>> Ignorant.
>> How about awful?
>> Say be nice. Say be kind. Don't be nice.
>> When I first when I first came in Wait,
hold on. When I first came in here, did
I not give the exact history of empathy
and where it came from and how it
changed over time? So, I don't know what
point you think you're making here.
>> And am I not explaining
Rogers?
>> Let me clarify, Mo. Let me clarify. Both
you one sec. Both you and Abe tried to
do this whole thing of I can't you have
a different mind to me. I can't have the
same mind as you, Argo. I can't have the
same feeling as you. That was your whole
thing to say the empty doesn't exist.
Now you're you have admitted on 4K HD TV
that yes you can
use specifically to mean that by the
movements that were using it. It was
popularized to
>> and then easy showed you the original
definition of sympathy Abe meant same
feeling and then your whole argument was
you can't have the same meaning which
means not only does empathy not exist
because your logic sympathy doesn't
exist either.
>> They just want to talk over they won't
actually listen. You don't even get what
I'm saying evidently.
>> Oh, I'm sorry. The middle of my sentence
interrupted the start of yours. Go
ahead.
>> You mean like how you talked over me
before I finish
>> the the exact uh Well, you know, going
back, there's less of us than more of
you. So, you know.
>> So, anyway, um so Terak, in no point in
uh the uh the history of sympathy
require you to project your mind.
>> Who's on my side of the name?
>> How would you have the same feeling
then? If you're two different minds, how
would you have the same feeling?
>> Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. Who said my name
for that? I'm I'm
>> Everybody shut the [__] up. Mo, answer
that question.
>> If you're two different minds, how can
you have the same feeling?
>> Well, you have a feeling of you're
hungry and I feel I'm hungry. That's the
same feeling.
>> Feelings
that hold on. Does that give you
understanding of how that feeling is in
another person, which is what empathy
is?
>> The other person.
>> Yes.
>> Yes. So, are you admitting you can have
the same feelings? That's the first
thing we need to define here.
>> Oh my god. You can have Yes, of course.
Well, humans have the same range of
feelings. Okay, but this is
>> so we can have someone like we can have
the same feelings. So, why can't I
imagine a scenario that you tell me and
then put myself in that scenario and
simulate the same feelings?
>> Yeah, it' be subjective to
>> Is that possible? That is possible. That
is real. That's a real thing that we do
as humans. Yes, that's empathy.
>> No, it's not.
>> So, empathy. If it has happened, that's
empathizing. If it has happened to you,
that's empathizing.
>> Empathy, I already went over this
multiple times. It came out of
pseudocience nonsense and it required
you to project yourself into [__]
statues and then they took it into
project yourself into [__] people
>> to Harvard in 1950. Carl Rogers is
>> the first clinician to start bringing
this into the field of psychology for
>> entering another person's emotional
framework of reference.
>> No, that's not what he did. That's not
at all their minds. Entering their
framework of reference.
>> Yeah, that doesn't mean physically
teleporting your mind.
>> What he DID HE DIDN'T DO any
>> was he took a he took a human he went
THE COMPLETELY OPPOSITE WAY OF FREUD. He
was a student of Freud. He went the
other way and he started a humanistic
form of psychology. Not to sit down and
tell me about your mother and you know
I'm going to tell you where you're
[__] up and why you're [__] up.
Listen to me in my white coat.
>> He's because this is important. This is
the guy who comes up with the word
that's used in the propaganda that's
used to treat psychopaths. If there is
such a thing as psychopaths, it's the
stuff that that gets got veterans paid
PTSD money and [__]
>> Bro, are you guys literally just like
over a word? The ability stop the word.
The ability to understand and share
feelings of another. How do you not
[__] like why is that
>> that's not
>> you know how does anybody know how any
of the the tests truly work and like
have looked at the methodology
>> if I literally have I literally have six
studies up right now
somebody tells me they just lost a
family member I can understand how they
would feel losing feel
you're sympathetic for them you know
what sympathetic for them is
>> oh that's The definition sympathetic.
What is the definition of sympathetic?
>> Sympathetic.
>> Okay. All right. Hold on.
>> So they try to read your sympathetic.
>> So sympathetic, a feeling or expression
of sincere concern for someone who is
experiencing something difficult or
painful when you describe.
>> I can understand how people would feel
and not feel any type of
>> Wait, wait, wait. Did that does that map
all in correctly to what you just said?
>> Yes.
>> Can you listen to what I answer my
question? Can you answer my question?
>> You did. If you just [__] paid
attention, I just answered you. I can
[__] understand how someone would
feel and have no concern for it.
>> YES.
>> YOU UNDERSTAND THAT?
>> That's how's that ANSWER MY QUESTION?
>> I UNDERSTAND how that orthodox guy that
came up on my channel the other day
talking all that [__] I can understand
how he would feel if his whole house
burnt down and he lost everyone in his
family. Do I care? Not one [__] bit.
>> You see? You see how that works?
You see how that works? I understand how
you would feel.
>> So you wouldn't have concern. So you
wouldn't have concern. No concern.
>> Well, that's the part that's sympathy
then. That's part of sympathy.
>> You would be the concern.
>> Holy [__]
>> Read it in front of you.
>> It says concern. Like actually actually
they both both actually both represent a
level of concern.
>> Both represent a level of concern. Have
you ever heard you can be all Have you
ever heard Have you ever heard all
communists are socialists but not all
socialists are communists?
>> That's fantastic. Thank you for that.
>> Yeah. But but like according to
according to Miam according to Miam
Webster just this is another article
that I have up here. According to them
um sympathy and empathy both share
common root the Greek noun pathos
meaning experience misfortune emotion
condition. Sympathy which has been in
use since the 16th century comes from a
Greek word that combines pathos with sin
meaning with together. Empathy was
modeled on sympathy. It was coined in
the early 20th century as a translation
of the German word eel as we've been
over right. It was a first applied in
context of philosophy aesthetics
psychology and specifically not in
general context involving such quote uh
quotidian things as disappointing ovens.
Right? So like the whole point this is
trying to
>> what were they using it for? What were
they using it for?
>> What were they why did what what was the
action that they were using for when
they coined it? What was the art
students doing?
>> Why did that uh guy coin that word?
>> He was trying to get them to take them
out of the view of themselves. And this
is why when we get into the neurological
understanding when you you even brought
up you even brought up mirror neurons,
right? Do you understand how mirror
neurons work?
>> What is the main function of a mirror
neuron? What is the main function of a
mirror neuron?
>> So the mir so the mirror neuron yeah we
talked about that. So the first time
that the mirin neurons uh came up was
when they they found them in macak
monkeys it was over motor actions. So
mirin neurons were first found in these
monkeys. Emotional miring in humans is
in fur not directly proven.
>> Okay. So you're you're you're telling me
you're okay. So what I'm trying brain
imaging brain imaging wait imaging shows
correlation uh not shared consciousness.
Okay. It's activation pattern.
>> That's all it is.
>> It's not stating it's not stating shared
consciousness. Empathy does not state
shared consciousness. That's a fallacy
right there. It does not state shared
consciousness. Not at all. I'm saying
you would have the original and and to
put it and to put it into layman terms,
what a neuron what a mirror neuron does
is it allows for a human essentially to
distinguish oneself from another
which allows you to understand similar.
>> Why does it only work if they're
culturally similar then?
>> Yeah. And why does it work? Why do they
get the same mapping when people watch
movies and action stars and things and
the same neurons m uh uh light up? Why
is that? Uh why is that?
>> What is that? What they don't neurons?
What does that have to do with medical
science? That's mirror neurons.
>> Yeah, that's what that's a study of
mirror neurons.
>> I don't know who that deal dude was. I
was just noticed they were in the back
though. Uh if you come to the back again
and just like throw your camera on, give
me a peace sign and then you can turn it
off to come up. I just didn't notice you
back there. Sorry.
>> Oh, I thought it was full. I was willing
to drop.
>> I don't even know who that know who that
is. Here here's the problem with the
with the mirror thing. It's like a false
pro uh false positive problem, right? Uh
the mirror neurons activation happens
when observing actors, cartoons,
fictional characters, CGI. Uh you don't
uh they react emotionally, but it's not
a real person is suffering. So that
that's the problem with the whole mirror
neurons science thing. And also once
again, it goes back to when they found
it in monkeys and they mapped on Shut
up. They mapped it onto motor action,
motor functions. They infer the
emotional would do the same thing in
humans. It's not proven that they It's
what you're saying. Sorry.
>> So, what do you think's happening? Like
when some chick's watching a movie and
there's like a sad moment happening
>> um and she starts crying.
>> What is that?
>> Yeah, that's the that's the mirror
neurons. You're mapping all into the
person.
>> So, so is there biological feedback?
>> I just use as an example.
>> What would that action be? It's
>> that would be pattern recognition
>> because they can't tell you're pattern
recognition.
>> It works off pattern recognition.
>> Everything in the world can lead down to
pattern recognition.
>> But that's an auto brain response, dude.
>> But they're not using emotions.
Everything is pattern recognition
>> and they're using sweating violation. I
judge emotion
>> when when they're doing emotionally
comes down to the army, right?
What you observe when you're feeling
suffering is shaped by your memories,
your fears, your pain tolerance, your
culture, your mood. Okay. So feeling is
uh it's it's internally constructed.
>> Yeah.
>> So that's what they're so that's what
they're doing when they watch these
movies.
>> What's the word for that? When the again
when the two they test something sad's
really happening and she starts
biological.
>> What is that?
>> They test your
>> That would be that would be the neuron
mapping. That would be the neuron
activation.
>> Hold on. This is why I kept
>> we're on activation. So, it's it's a
it's um it's a biological response they
can't control.
>> Well, this is why I kept bringing up the
sympathetic response because your
parasympathetic nervous system goes
animals with
>> instinct.
That's the only thing we can test for.
>> Stop. I want to get down to this cuz
he's saying it's just an instinct then,
right?
>> No, I didn't say it's instinct. It that
would be emotional. That would be the
No, hold on. feel sad.
>> The let me get let me get to it. The
neurom mapping that you're seeing when
they watch movies and stuff like that
sad stuff. It would trigger an emotional
response based on their uh subjective
feelings on the matter,
>> their subjective feelings on the matter.
>> They don't they don't even test empathy
with a biological test. Sad about
sad about a movie or they sad about it
to a real life. You're given a
scorecard. They show
>> which would be subjective in their head
based on their experience
>> scenarios in a real
>> and they show you images of like how
people feel or what's going to happen.
>> Well, you you're because you guys are
all wrong.
>> [__]
>> What?
>> I'm not going to let you argue the
fallacy.
>> You're not going to let me. Okay. Go
somewhere else where you're not going to
let me nothing. Get the [__] out of
here, bro. Sick of people coming up on
here and acting like they own my [__]
dog. Take a [__] walk. Come back
another night, guy. [__] out of here
with that [__] You're not going to let
me. Holy guy,
>> I just I I don't know how way to explain
this difference between sympathy and
empathy, man. Like,
>> I will say I will I will say there is
there is more to it. Like my layman in
my layman term explanation, there is far
more to it. Like there's things like
there there is things like uh for
instance Oh, [__] What was it? I just
had it in my in my [__] head, too.
Oh, yeah. Yeah, there's there's things
like partner neurons and there's also
like things like um they I believe they
call them anti-mirror neurons and
there's also other selective neurons
which also are are
purported to be a part of the
differentiation between oneself and and
another. However, like there is
something to say with the firing of
these that just because you can view
something that is in is is um non
caporal like not n not real, right? Like
you can look at something you can watch
something that's not real and get an
emotional response from that. That
doesn't necessarily mean that that that
that that um that that declassifies it
as as valid, right? Like you still are
responding to something that you are
visually watching. And we see this with
infants. Infants are capable of
mirroring emotions of their parents.
This is why it is it's stated that it's
so important for there to be a healthy
household while you are raising a
newborn child because if you have an
instable household, that child could
very well be learning the wrong
neurological uh behaviors, right? I
mean, if you want to demonstr
but it's only pos it's only possible
through a mirroring um through a
mirroring facet, right? Like you're only
they're only capable
>> prediction. It's it's like prediction
recognition sim like simulation things
like that. This this is all this is not
uh to my point is not does not show or
prove uh like some sort of emotional
transfer.
>> Yeah. Yeah, but we but what I'm you keep
you keep granting you keep granting that
somebody has to be in the same body or
same mind in order to feel something
like I'm not granting that. What I'm
saying is that you can still have an
experience of some kind.
I know I know I know what it's I know
what it's like to find somebody who
selfdeleted, right? And if somebody else
knows what it's knows what that's like,
I don't know what they went through
necessarily. I don't know how they dealt
with it. I don't know what their
personal experience was, but I'm still
capable of understanding the general
concept of that feeling and the
experience that they had. So, I'm able
to relate the very relation
in in and of itself is a shared
experience. That doesn't mean that I'm
inside their [__] mind feeling
exactly what they're feeling. So that
case, so someone unfortunately they get
uh depression enough and they
selfdelete. Um how can you share in that
subh subjective experience since you've
never done it
>> by putting your it's
>> no I'm not saying I think you miss I
think you misunderstood. I'm not saying
I know what it's like to to to for the
one who selfdeleted. I what I said is I
know what it's like to find somebody who
has selfdeed somebody I care about. I
know what it's like to find that
individual. So if somebody else who has
gone through that same experience,
right, let's say they have found
somebody they care about who has gone
through selfdeion,
>> I'm still capable of sharing the
understanding of that feeling and that
emotional state. I know what it's like
for that to drive me into a state of
depression for years. I so if they're
going through that I have an ability to
comprehend to an extent what they are
going through so I can level with them.
If I was being purely sympathetic then
I'm going with nothing more than just a
general consensus of of their I guess
you you could call it their harm.
I understand I understand oh it sucks to
be you.
>> Sympathy would fit that. No that's not
the that's not correct.
you could sympathize with their
experience more to a more degree and
just like I can't sympathize uh with I
can't uh empath empathize with you
>> to uh because I don't know what it's
like to find someone in that state right
>> you can sympathize
>> now I can sympathize with you and I have
concern and and all and and really
sincerely care but I will never
hopefully never know what what that's
like to find
>> Yeah. Yeah. But you just Sorry. You just
literally explained my point better than
I explained it. That's exactly what I'm
trying to say is that in order to
empathize, you have to actually have the
you have to actually have some form of
that experience, right? If if I if I get
hit by a car and somebody else gets hit
by a car, I know what it's like to get
hit by a car.
>> This is so empathize with so I can
empathize so I can empathize with
themition. I don't need to actually even
have experienced it myself and still be
able to understand the feelings that
would come out of this. For instance,
I've never uh witnessed a toddler get
smoked in front of me, but I can imagine
and understand the feeling I would have
if that happened. Okay? Because I value
children. Okay? That's one reason. So,
I'm going off of how I feel and this is
what we do. We relate ourselves to other
what? Human beings. Cuz we're all human
beings with feelings. Part of your your
uh um
uh your understanding of someone else's
feelings is putting your own feelings
into it. That's the only way you could
ever do it. Nobody in the world thinks
of understanding someone else's feelings
means you're in their head or you've had
to have the exact same experience.
Nobody thinks of understanding Well, let
me let me ask you. Okay. Would you would
you also say in that scenar you just
proposed
>> um few things. One, I think you admit
that is still subjective to you, right?
>> Yes. And and and
>> well, wait a minute. In in a sense,
I think there's an objective standard
that uh the the killing of a baby would
be bad.
>> Well, yeah, of course. I'm not talking
about the moral value judgement of the
act. I'm just saying like the feelings
would be
>> have all we can do is our subjective.
We're not God.
>> Okay. No. No. All right. But but okay.
So it's it's it's subjective, right? But
also you can uh have an understanding of
the feelings, but you don't really know
what it's like to have that happen.
Especially if it's the person like the
other person. You don't know how like
what they're feeling if they did
experience that.
>> So then what? So then what what if the
person does what if the does the person
does what they are capable of leveling?
Okay. But I'm not saying perfectly like
first of all there's nothing called
perfection.
>> This is why this is why I brought up
wait. This is why I brought up infants
earlier because an infant can't like
communicate their internal state to you.
They can't use logic. They can't do any
of this. But like we accurately uh uh
like assess and infer those states from
their behavioral cues. And that's what
we're doing with empathy,
>> right? We're we're we're inferring the
internal state from from the cues. That
is what empathy is.
>> So let's use the baby again.
>> Like you brought up somebody on the side
of the road earlier crying, a girl on
the side of the road crying. And then
when you when you when you oh feel bad
for her if you were just say oh I feel
bad for that girl or you know this would
be sympathy. If you go sit down with her
listen to why she's sad and then
understand why she's sad. That's
empathy.
>> I would say that's an act of love.
>> You don't necessarily love the girl. You
just met the girl.
>> Okay. Not is all love romantic.
>> That's fine. That's fine. No. No. No.
That's fine. That's fine. That's fine.
Buddy, wait. This is fine. This is fine.
He said, "Guys, wait. Wait. This is an
act of love. This is an act of love."
Um, would you say that me um uh having
children with my wife is an act of love?
>> Well, yeah. Love has love has different
aspects. Which one would be empathy?
Thank you. Yes.
>> Wait.
You're right.
>> No, it isn't. Empathy doesn't exist.
Yes, it is.
>> No. No. You you can make an assertion
but you haven't demonstrated an act of
love.
>> You can make an assertion but you
haven't demonstrated it sir. Sorry.
>> Yes. You can make an assertion that it's
an act of love but act of love is vague
as you just demonstrated yourself. So
can you give me a version of what it is
about it would be the love.
>> Okay. Okay. So, in that scenario,
someone's well, hold on. Someone's
crying. Um, and you feel sympathy for
it, but then it's like, oh, no, I
actually want to like help this person.
>> And you try to understand what they're
going through and now.
>> Yeah. Hold on. So, so the act of love
would be that you have
>> No. No. What? You can't say love.
>> I can't talk.
>> No, you can't say act of love.
>> Hey, gentlemen. One minute.
>> Just a too vague. There's too many
things that can be added.
>> I will give you a description. I'm going
to give you like two.
>> No, no, no. I said rolling, not running.
>> Yeah, I got to take off.
>> Oh, Abe says he's got to get going. Tell
everybody where to find you, Abe.
>> Come over to Abe Dinkas channel. We'll
have more fun like this, I'm sure. We do
panels, we do interviews, we do
all kinds of stuff. So, come check it
out.
>> Yeah. Hell yeah. I like you. You got
some good arguments.
>> All right. Thanks.
Have a good night.
>> Good debate. Good debate.
>> Good debate.
>> Thanks, Dak.
>> Cheers, Aid.
>> Still waking up.
>> He has too.
>> Yeah, my coffee.
>> He hasn't had enough.
>> Hey, he hasn't had enough Irish He
hasn't had enough Irish coffees in him
yet.
>> Got to get the whiskey out, you know.
>> There we go.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I hate I hate when I
go, By the way, just a little sidetrack
here. I hate when I go to like a bar and
like I ask for an Irish coffee and they
always ask me if I want whipped cream on
it. Like no, I don't want freaking
whipped cream on it. Just give me a
double shot of whiskey. It's
>> kind of coffee.
>> Yes. Double shot of whiskey with some
coffee.
>> Okay. So easy. To your point, uh love
has different context depending on the
situation and how you apply it. Uh in
that context it would be something along
the lines of you have sympathy for them
and you also have um uh concern for your
fellow man and you want to through love
you want to find out what they're going
through and you have a dialogue with
them.
>> So
what is the word for all of that?
Love for your fellow man. Sympathy.
>> Wait,
>> sympathy going words.
>> You're using the same the action to
describe the action.
>> So you want me to get a very specific
definition for what empathy empathy is a
specific definition.
>> Where in empathy? Wait, where does
empathy have anything to do with love?
Well, I mean like act of love.
I demonstrated something that was
empathy and you called it an act of
love.
>> I I didn't hear the first part, which I
agree.
>> I didn't hear that first part. I got
heard a bunch of people talking. What?
>> Oh, I I I demonstrated what empathy
would be and you called it an act of
love. So, I said, "Yeah, empathy is an
act of love."
>> So, you're So, you're just saying Oh,
okay. So you're just saying that empathy
is act of love.
>> Yeah. It's because
love acts of love is like all it's very
vague.
>> Well yeah but in that scenario that we
just discussed it empathy wouldn't be a
direct descriptor. It would be something
along you know love act of love charity
having sympathy for the person's plight.
All these would work better than empathy
because once again empathy is based on
its roots and and how it uh evolved.
It's just nonsense.
And it's backed by the psychologists
like psychology and they use and they
use it in their uh
>> sympathy. Sympathy requires a desire to
help. Look at the look at the definition
of sympathy please.
>> A feeling or expression of sincere
concern for someone who is experiencing
something difficult or painful.
>> It requires the desire to help.
>> Well, no. It just says a sincere
concern.
Yeah. I mean, you could say desire to
help would come from come from that.
Yeah.
>> All right. So, in that situation,
>> concern
>> in that situation, is it fair to say if
you see two couples,
>> you're concerned?
>> They say they're in love. You're the
third party and you see them split up,
right? Could you say you would
sympathize for that situation there,
them breaking off, right?
>> Uh, so
>> if you've never loved yourself,
>> sorry, sorry. I'm just trying to I'm
just trying to answer as easiest
questions as it comes. Uh so concern uh
definition uh relate to be about is what
it says. So or worry is another.
>> So worry. So you wor you're worried
about the person.
>> Yeah. When you worry
>> but that doesn't that doesn't
necessarily mean that you're you're from
that definition and that word it does
necessarily uh jump into actionable help
on them. That would require something
else like like having love for your
fellow man or something like that to to
really want to
>> you could want to help love happens all
the time.
>> Yeah, I got an idea. I have five.
>> Yeah, but but what I said uh love for
your fellow men, it's based on your
understanding of another human is
suffering and you want to help them.
>> So when detectives are profiling
suspects, that would be uh sympathy.
That would be their job.
>> Yeah, I know it's their job. I asked you
what they're doing. Is it sympathy?
>> I don't understand why they would have
to enter the equation yesterday because
they're working for
you said understanding
if if understanding of others emotions
is just sympathy. Then when a detective
is profiling a suspect, they are just
>> Well, no, you're taking one part of of
the of the descriptor and then you're
applying it to a completely different
scenario.
>> Okay. So,
>> wait a minute. Has certain scenarios it
has to be a part of?
>> No, your scenario of a different
>> Okay. So then can you explain to me when
you're understanding the emotions of a
of a criminal and you're profiling a
suspect,
is that sympathy?
>> That's a psych profile,
>> right? What is that?
>> Uh part of the job of being a detective.
>> They're not emotionally attached to the
person necessarily. In fact, a lot of
the guys are very jaded. So because
they've seen so much horrific [__] all
the time.
>> Yeah. what they're understanding.
>> When I go into a debate and I'm uh when
I go into a debate and I'm I'm um um
like anticipating and predicting the
other side's um
uh emotional response to what I say.
>> Mhm.
>> Like how I used to do the financial
abortion thing cuz I knew this triggered
people. I knew it triggered especially
feminists. I know that. How how am I
knowing that? Am I am I demonstrating
sympathy?
>> No, that's pattern recognition.
>> That's pattern recognition.
>> Yeah, because you've you've done it so
many times and you know you've seen
videos and you know
>> I knew it before I did it. I knew it
before I did it.
>> So you knew before you had your first
>> I knew that would happen.
>> Yes.
>> Right. But did did you know ex Okay.
>> I literally like planned it out how I
would do it and everything.
>> Sure. But did you know exactly how they
were going to react or did it
>> Yes.
>> Really?
>> Yeah.
>> Okay. Well done. You knew it was going
to trigger a bunch of people to come up
onto my panel.
>> Yeah, you knew it was going to trigger
them, but it did.
>> Uh, sure. You knew it was going to
trigger them, right?
>> But you didn't know exactly to what
degree necessarily.
>> That doesn't matter.
>> I need full understanding. That's not
what it says. That's not what empathy
is. But I'm asking you, is it sympathy
or empathy?
>> I would say it's pattern recognition.
I'd say it's neither.
>> It's pattern
>> or or it's modeling. You can say
modeling, too. you knew you you're
modeling in your head that you know that
this is a a topic that is contentious
and people will freak out over it. So
you have the model in your head of like
how it's going to go and then you apply
it. I don't see how I don't actually see
how sympathy or empathy I don't see how
empathy No, it's not. I don't see how
empathy or sympathy would even come into
that situation. That's just
>> you know like mapping out the situation
as you like the the cognitive process
you just described is empathy. the
understanding of the situation, mapping
things out.
>> Well, that's like when you were saying
>> Mo, let me ask you it like this. Can I
um Can I misunderstand a person while
still feeling sorry for them?
>> Can you misunderstand a person while
still feeling sorry for them? Uh, sure.
You can misunderstand a person in many
contexts.
>> Wow. So, sympathy without empathy
exists.
sympathy without
so you're basing it on what the
I'm really I'm actually trying to
understand your point
>> understanding of someone's feelings is
not required
>> to feel sorry for them right
>> so wait say it again
>> you're understand I'm
>> trying I'm trying to understand
>> okay can someone misunderstand a person
while still feeling sorry for them
>> misunderstanding person while still
feeling yes that yeah I was
>> so the concern the sympathy is there
right
>> and you still and you feel sorry for
them
>> but you don't understand them right
>> yeah you don't understand their
situation
>> but do you think you do understanding
>> no that's misunderstanding
>> didn't say that
>> well that's what a misunderstanding is
>> framing it
>> well no you mis if you if me and you're
having conversation and we misunderstand
each other like I think we've done a few
times this debate. Uh we would have an
idea of what we think the other person
is saying, but it might not be mapped on
reality, but we think we do.
>> What if I just have a girl that comes up
bloodied face and crying? I can I feel
sorry for her with her saying absolutely
nothing and me not knowing anything
about it.
>> Right. Yeah.
>> Right. So I don't have to understand it
or even have an idea or of what I think
it is. Right.
I I see. Yeah, that's that's point. But
I don't see where you're going with
this. I don't understand how this maps
on to sympathy
>> because empathy is understanding
the feeling.
You keep saying that's sympathy, but you
just showed how sympathy isn't have
anything to do with understanding the
feeling.
>> No. Okay. Well,
>> adding that in to No. Okay.
>> Boys, I'm going to call it here. You got
a person in the back. Easy. But I'm it's
like 5v1 6v1 right now. I there I have
no need to be up here.
>> Bring it on average. Come on. Save the
chest. I don't care.
>> I'm good.
>> The person in the back just throw your
cam on quick. Give me a peace sign and
then you can turn it off. I'll bring
>> It's good to see you guys. You guys can
find me on Normal America.
>> Have a good day.
>> Why did Why didn't you Why didn't you
come up and make jokes about everybody
this time? What the hell, man? Uh, what
do you mean make jokes about?
>> I mean, last I mean last last time I saw
you, you made fun of me for make wearing
shades on the inside.
>> Well, you're not wearing shades, are
you?
>> Yeah, I'm trying to work on my empathy
today.
>> All right. Well, I'm going to let you
guys get back at it. Speak easy. Thanks
for having me on.
>> One of the best shows on YouTube. Get
those donos in.
>> Have a good night, everybody.
>> Take it easy.
>> So, in this scenario, you just propose.
Girl walks up, she's bloody. Okay, she's
she's bloody.
>> Say bloody. Say she's just crying.
>> Fine, whatever. She's crying.
>> You feel uh you know bad for her
concerned.
>> You feel concerned, sympathetic for for
her, right? But you don't have any
understanding of the situation. So what
would you do? You would ask her what the
hell's going on and then you would have
understanding of the situation further.
>> So how does empathy enter into that at
all?
>> Right. So the initial like do you think
there's something that happens when from
that initial concern you asking and then
she tells you that my whole family was
just murdered and all of a sudden a deep
sadness falls over you.
>> Do you think all of a sudden you're now
sharing in the experience or is this
still just sympathy and you're just
concerned for her?
>> No, that once again sad when you're
concerned even though you didn't get sad
when you were concerned two seconds ago.
So once again that would be something
like neurom mapping where you have
models
>> neuromapping. So it's instinct.
>> No
>> you what the [__] is neuromapping? It's
a free will.
>> Let me finish. Let can I finish
statement? Let me Can I finish? The
neurom mapping would trigger uh pattern
recognition and and uh uh subjective uh
thoughts and things that you can
I'm getting to it.
>> No, you're not. You're saying it would
do this. Can you tell me what it is?
>> It's pattern. It's pattern recognition.
>> You just said it triggers pattern
recognition. So pattern recognition
triggers pattern recognition.
>> No, please answer what I'm asking you.
>> I'm trying to let me talk.
>> No, you're jumping away from it.
>> No, I'm not. Let me finish like get like
three sentences out and then we can go
on.
>> Answer what I'm asking you then go on
this diet tribe.
>> I'm not trying to go on a diet tribe.
I'm trying to answer but you won't let
me answer. But go ahead. What? What?
What do you want me to answer? I'll I'll
try to act
>> know what I'm asking you. That's why
you're just listening to respond.
>> No, you asking me Well, you ask you
asked me multiple questions. So, which
one you you ask me you asked me multiple
questions. Which one you going to answer
first? What is neural mapping? What is
uh you know
>> what is neuromapping? Is that an
instinct? What is it? An emotion? What
is it?
>> It's a trigger in the brain that
happens.
>> It's an instinct and no let me
>> Oh my god.
>> Let him get mad. You're triggering the
brain. Dude,
>> you won't let me finish the sentence, so
I I guess I can't never give.
>> You know what? Try Go ahead. Go ahead.
Tell us what it is. Go.
>> Holy [__] Okay. It's uh you you see
something, right? And this is it goes to
the neurom mapping. It triggers uh a
response to the brain and it uh
activates uh models and uh pattern
recognition and all these other things
that you are that are subject to
yourself. And then that uh makes an
emotional response based on those things
that are subjective.
>> Right? So it is so it it literally is a
self-organized mapping of the body
environment is considered an innate
>> innate instinctual and hardwired
process. Neuromapping
>> the biological instinct like all this
biological instinct.
>> Okay. Yeah. Okay. Look, I'm not Look,
dude. I don't have like uh uh the you
know I'm not a neuroscience. I'm just
reading [__] like
>> I like I'm trying to I'm trying to
explain best I can here holding all of
fires like you said this wrong
>> right
>> or is it something we freely choose to
do?
>> Well, no, it would it would be I guess
you could say it was instinct. I didn't
look into it further if they I didn't
look into it further if they classified
it as instinct or like emotional
response or or I didn't look into it
from that level.
>> You're literally born with it. You're
literally born with neurom mapping. It's
it's it's built into survival and
efficiency.
>> Neuromapping is what we use as babies to
like learn how to actually like
communicate with each other. Like we're
not doing that as adults when when when
a woman's watching a movie that get
makes her sad and she feels the sadness
inside of her. Or the other day I was
watching this movie uh about a father
loses his wife. He's with his daughters.
His daughter has a I don't know if you
guys watched the movie Ordinary Angels
on Netflix. The way I felt thinking
about the [__] that this dad is going
through and I've never went through any
of it.
>> I was able to be empathetic with the
[__] character of a movie.
>> Yeah.
>> Empathy is a is a a main function of our
[__] essential being. It's our it's part
of our nature.
>> So, I'll use different examples.
>> I'll use a different example because I
was really sad. But, um, you know,
there's certain movies that I watch and
uh, you know, I'll have the like exactly
what you're saying where I have like
this emotional response like one was a
um,
>> it was about the guy and he was, you
know, sledding and his dogs in the
Arctic. And anyway, won't get too much
into it, but anyway, I had a like an
emotional response to it. Now, I've
never been I've never done I I Yes, it
is. Yeah. Uh I've never uh I've never
gone dog sledding. Okay. I don't know
what that's like, but but I based on
just my you know pattern recognition and
things like that in my mind, I would say
that's how it was triggered. I don't
have any way to directly uh un
understand what it's like to be there in
the cold, how cold it was, what it feels
like on the face, uh you know, all this
other stuff. So once again, I don't
believe that's empathy because I think
empathy is a [__] word.
>> Yeah, but if I go to
if I go to the shooting range and and I
miss the target with every single shot,
I've still went to the firing range,
>> the accuracy. Yeah. The the accuracy of
the the gun or what I what I done at the
emot the firing range has nothing got to
do whether or not I went to the the the
firing range. The act of trying to
understand even though you don't
understand fully is still empathy.
>> I'll tell you why it's not empathy.
Because I didn't just see the scene of
her laying in the hospital bed and then
he's over there crying and like that
made me like think about or get sad
inside. That didn't that's not what made
me get sad inside.
>> That scene I I I could give a [__]
right? What made me get sad inside is
start thinking about this father and and
being in the position of a father who
just lost his wife. His daughter's about
to die, has no liver transplant
available, is in debt like crazy. And
then I also thought about how grateful I
would be for this drunk crazy chick that
came into my life. Like I I put myself
in shoes I've never been in and was able
to experience emotion because of it. And
would Okay, so let's go with that for a
second. Hold on. I'd like to dissect
that just a little bit.
>> So would you say someone else watching
that same movie, they don't have a
family and stuff? Like cuz if I watch
that, I would, you know, being a father,
I would be I would be able I would be
able to sympathize with that probably
more
>> and it would hit a little harder because
I do have kids.
>> A father may watch it and say, "Ah, this
shit's gay."
>> Right? So someone else someone else
could say, "Right." So it's uh that's
means it's subjective.
But empathy is so happy is not real guys
because sometimes people who get
[__] are happy and sometimes you get
people who get blow jobs are not happy.
So happy is not real subjective.
Sadness isn't real guys because it's
also subjective because that's funny but
I don't say that has anything to do with
it.
>> You just said that because it's
subjective it's not real.
>> No I didn't say I didn't say it wasn't
real. I said it's subject.
>> You said empathy doesn't exist. This is
your whole argument.
>> I'm not granting
whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa
whoa whoa whoa. This is but that would
be me granting you in the scenario that
that empathy that is empathy. And I'm
saying that's not
you can't use the thing to prove the
thing.
>> What kind of [__] Floyd Mayweather
dodging [__] is this? You can't use the
thing in question to prove the thing in
question.
>> You You cannot You cannot deny a
definition and then provide no counter
definition.
>> I did.
>> Okay. Can I ask you do that?
>> Mo, can I can I ask you a question real
quick? Real quick,
>> real quick. Real quick, Mo. Okay. I just
want to I just want to know
>> this.
Let let me pull let me pull an a let me
pull an
>> let me pull an abe and grant and grant
and grant grant your position right
let's say let's say that that empathy is
is [__] so then under your so then
under your perspective if I if if let's
let's take there is still a difference
between um regular sympathy and and the
and um and let's say like having the
ability to remove yourself emotionally
from the sympathetic situation. So
you're still sympathetic to them, but
you're emotionally detached from it. So
then what would you call that? Is that
another form of sympathy to you, or do
you have another definitional term for
it?
>> Okay. So I want to make sure I
understand. You're saying in
>> Well, I just want to make sure I
understand clarify the question. You're
saying a situation where
>> you want to be attached, but you're
still sympathetic. Is is that
>> No. No. Like like like like so so so
most definitions at least modern modern
definitions most of them posit that
sympathy is a is a more emotionally
detached position than empathy and
empathy is is far is typically far more
emotionally involved. Right? This is
like these are these are the most
general consensuses in in in modern
understanding of these two terms. Right?
So what I'm asking is in place of
empathy given let's just let's just
state that that these definitions mean
like mean what they mean right for for
these two words but instead of empathy
being the word what would you call that
then that situation what would you call
the situ the the or sorry what would you
cuz you're from my understanding is
you're saying that essentially the
situations that we're stating is empathy
is just sympathy. So if that's the case,
if we're replacing empathy with
sympathy, then what is then what is what
is the situ the detached situation then?
If it is not sympathy.
>> Yeah. What would you call having an
understanding of the situation without
having a strong feeling attached to it?
>> Yeah. So what would that be from your
from your position?
Well, that would be something like uh
just disconnected or just, you know,
>> but you're not technically fully
disconnected because you still care.
Like you still to some degree, right?
Like you still you're still like, "Oh,
that's shitty. Oh, she she broke her
leg. She broke her leg. That's still
that's still that's real shitty, but at
the same token, I'm going to go about my
day and I'm just going to be like, man,
right?" Like so you're still emotionally
detached about it or in a situation
where you're like um for instance where
you're trying to give the silver lining.
You're trying to give the silver lining
to your friend instead of just actually
leveling with them and giving them
proper advice. You're just giving them
the silver lining. Like you're just
removing yourself from the emotional
aspect. You're keeping distance.
>> Just keep it simple.
Um
I I mean I think that would just be
cognitive awareness or something like
that or detached awareness.
>> Awareness of what?
>> Of the situation.
>> The situation meaning what?
>> Meaning the whatever scenario he just
put out there. He he was he was saying
you have a scenario where you're aware
of of the situation, but you're like
>> you're aware of a situation. You can be
aware that somebody ran into a mailbox.
Does that make you feel anything or
would you be able to like understand?
>> I don't know what you think. I don't
know who you think you're arguing here.
I don't know what you're like I'm I'm
answering question about
>> Yeah. And I Hold on. I don't I don't
think I don't think I explained it
obviously well enough. What I'm trying
to say is is you have you have we have
two terms here. We have empathy which
under which under the
>> by the way gentlemen wait by the way
gentlemen I I I thoroughly enjoy this.
Um I think it's great. I I love hearing
these questions so I can kind of refine
this but it is getting late and I do
have to get up early so I only have like
a maybe like another 10 minutes.
Fair enough.
>> If I can get one thing to you.
>> So you have you have you have two has an
emotional investment to it or you have
like a stronger bond to that situation.
Sympathy is you could literally like hey
I've never been in a car accident but I
can look at a car oh damn that sucks. I
don't have any strong feelings either
way, but I recognize that person was in
a car accident.
>> Well, the definition of symphony has
concern in it. That's the problem
though. Like, how do you car accident?
>> Hold on. This is this is this is why I'm
trying to ask him. This is why I'm
trying to ask him this, right? You have
two terms, right? We you have two terms.
You have empathy, which under the most
which under the most uh um the most
normal understanding um not the most
eloquent way to say that, but under the
most under is is more emotionally
evolved. is involved, right? And you
have sympathy, which is which under the
most notable definition. I have it up
right right now, is typically more
emotionally detached. So you still both
of them still maintain concern and both
of them still maintain some level of
understanding, but one is more about
being um more emotionally present and
one is more emotionally distant. So if
we're if we're positing that that uh uh
empathy doesn't exist and it's actually
just sympathy then in this case what is
the what would you
>> Yeah.
>> Like what would be the other way for
that to explain that situation? So, I
was really trying to follow you there,
but can you just give me like like a
short exact scenario like so is a
scenario like you're you something
happens,
>> you have knowledge of that thing, but
you're not emotionally attached to it.
Is that the
>> like for instance, somebody gets shot
somebody gets shot in front of somebody
gets shot in front of me and I'm like,
"Yeah, yo, that that sucks. That that
really sucks. Maybe I'll call the cops,
but like I don't really care that much.
like I'm not going to invest myself into
this, right?
>> Yeah. I I would say that's like that
detachment or detached awareness,
something like that.
>> Okay. But you still care. So like you're
not entirely detached care to it.
>> So Okay. So now you're saying you're not
giving
because both both sympathy and empathy
still have a level of caress caring.
>> Hold on. Hold on. How can you be how can
you sit there and say uh this person got
shot and you're detached and you're
aware of it uh but you care at the same
time? How how do you how do you resp
like you can rename empathy, right? But
like you're not you're not saying that
there's not a human ability to
understand another person's
>> Can I put forward an idea? Can I put
forward an idea?
>> I I just want to answer
>> repeat what I just said
>> mostly like where you're going with it.
I just want to get an answer from that
guy that I that I posed a question to
like how can you have
>> trying to get into that and the idea
like what Terry put forward the idea
that somebody can get hit in the nuts.
>> Maybe you don't care
>> that because he put himself in the
position to get hit in the nuts. It's
not that you're not going to feel what
they felt. So the level of sympathy that
comes from
that person putting himself in a bad
position to get hit in the nuts doesn't
mean you don't feel that he got hit in
the nuts and how much it could suck.
>> Especially if you're a guy and you have
nuts.
>> Yeah,
>> precisely.
>> So it's a shared human experience of why
we feel the empathy. Like we all know as
men what it could feel like to get hit
in the nut. I just want to say as woman,
I've been watching movies with I was I
got to bring it up. I've been watching
movies with my wife where a dude gets
hit in his nuts and my wife goes, "Ooh."
And she she don't got nuts, but she's
just understanding that that's a
sensitive area. If I was a guy with
sensitive nuts, that would probably
hurt. And she's not a guy with sensitive
nuts. You see, you can be
>> I'd say that's a higher level of
empathy. Like that's a different level
of empathy. No, I I would call that I
would call that like some sort of
modeling of like a pain she's felt and
she's aware that nut kicking is like
super extremely painful and it was just
you know I would say it's it's it's
based on like the modeling of of that
not necessarily
>> to answer your question keep renaming
>> we're talking about somebody getting
shot.
>> So we're talking about somebody getting
>> Hold on hold on Can I Can I answer his
question? Can I answer his question?
He's already said he's going to leave. I
just want to answer his question quick.
Well, he was saying that somebody got
shot in front of him. Like, he may not
empathize with like why the person got
shot, but he could empathize with the
person being shot. These are two
different
>> Hold on, hold on, hold on. Can I Can I
Can I answer Can I answer the question
myself, please? Thank you. Sorry. I
appreciate the answer. Yeah. All I'm all
All I'm trying to say is that like
there's both words positing
and understanding. Both of them, right?
However, one compared to the other
states that you can be more detached
from the scenario. I can care to an
extent about something but not fully
give a [__] right? Like I don't have to
fully invest myself emotionally and
mentally into something to say that I
still to say that I care to some degree.
So you would say you have like a a level
of care of concern but maybe not like
pos might not might not spur you to
action necessarily.
>> Yeah.
Thank you. That's sympathy. Thank you.
>> Yeah. That that's what I'm saying.
That's what I'm saying. But
definitionally that's what sympathy is.
And and definitionally empathy is taking
the action is is is being is being
emotionally invested in it.
Definitionally, empathy states that you
are capable of of understanding to a
degree that it pushes you over that edge
of of non-detachment. If that if that
makes sense.
>> Could you imagine, Mo, could you be
could you imagine what it would feel
like uh to be a dog that never gets let
out of its cage?
>> No. I don't know what it's like to be a
dog.
>> You couldn't imagine that?
>> No. You can imagine the feeling a dog
would have never getting
>> I don't even know where I would begin.
Like I have to like grow hair. I don't
disingenuous.
>> Well, maybe
you only be able to sympathize for the
dog. But now put yourself sympathize
with it. Yeah, I can sympathize with I
don't want I could imagine that I was
locked in a cage, right? I could and and
put my mind imagine that. But I wouldn't
want to but I'm not like I don't know
what it's like to be a dog. Can can we
take this
>> understand the feeling can we take this
frog in a cage empathize
not necessarily the feeling because dogs
feel things completely different look it
was right here I get this with you the
nail on the head
>> how do you know that
>> you literally can empathize with
>> dog trainers and science that's kind of
what I wanted to get to so like you look
at a dog that's like meant to be sitting
around the floor like a Pomeranian dogs
that don't care like I got
>> they don't care about being put in a
cage. But you look at a Siberian husky
or you look at a German Shepherd, you
know they're not meant to be in a cage.
You can already empathize with their
anxiousness.
>> You can say that they're
>> Well, why wouldn't you say empathy?
>> I would say I would sympathize with it.
>> No, that's and that's what I was saying.
You can see the dog being in the cage.
But if you
>> I can sympathize with the idea of like
if I was I can imagine if I was super
active and I was hyper and someone put
me in a cage. I could sympathize with
hey that would suck. But I don't have a
direct access to the mind of the dog in
order to understand what he's feeling.
>> Yeah. So you can argue the door.
>> What I'm saying is you can empathize
with the idea of being locked in a cage
like a prisoner
>> can sympathize with it.
>> No empathize because you can imagine
that position
>> sympathize with the dogs.
>> I do got to give Mo some I I do got to
give Mo some respect for hold for
sticking to his guns. Like he literally
is like unfailing.
Like he just sticks to it. I got to give
him I got to give him that. He's just
like unfailing on his position. Like I
>> get ass wrong because he's put himself
in that position.
>> I don't agree with him. I don't agree
with him. I'm just saying like he
>> just to to get to the point where he's
at. He had to acknowledge that he thinks
like this isn't correct. And if I were
in that position, I would
>> when did I ever when I ever acknowledge
that I was I wasn't correct when
>> literally in everything you said
>> great great example of being locked. Hey
Mo, did you say you can understand the
feeling of being locked in in a cage?
>> Yeah, you basically see that the
phenomenon of understanding or being
able to understand other people's
perspectives or different perspectives
and like imagine yourself in that
situation. You're saying that that is a
real phenomenon but you're denying that
that's Empathy.
>> No, you can you sympathize for the dog.
>> Like when we when we make the
distinction, can you kind of be
sympathetic without understanding? And
that's when he gave the example of
crying on the street.
>> That that itself like you you basically
conceded. Yeah. Like that's that's
that's
>> you understand what it be like.
>> No, I didn't.
>> I didn't I didn't concede anything in
that in that in that example.
>> No. What are you talking about?
>> You know, you said you said you can have
sympathy without understanding. One sec.
One sec. You can have sympathy without
understanding. But when we went to the
other one where it's like just the the
ability to perceive yourself in a
similar situation to to a story that
you've been told, you said, "Yeah, that
does uh but that's just pattern
recognition." But you admit that that
phenomenon is real and that that
phenomenon is useful to society.
>> I never said it was useful to society.
Never made that claim.
>> I never came into the discussion at all.
So you were like just injecting [__]
>> I I want to ask you a question. Crawling
in my skin.
>> Are you saying
>> Oh [__] I cut my neck. Damn it. I just
noticed that. All right. That came from
VK. Someone renamed me and I never
changed it.
>> It should never get changed cuz you're
crawling up on the skin right now.
>> No. Are you saying you can't relate to
the idea? So like
>> do you understand the definition?
>> I don't know how to change it.
>> The preface definition of sympathy.
>> Uh sorry. Say say it again.
the preface
definition of sympathy.
>> Yes.
>> So,
>> okay. What about it?
>> The feelings of pity or sorrow for
someone else's misfortune.
>> Well, I I the the the Webster version
that I'm looking at is a feeling or
expression of sincere concern for
someone who is experiencing something
difficult or painful,
>> which would be a pity or sorrow for
somebody else's circumstance.
>> Well, no. Pity is different than
>> specific understanding of or relating
different circumstances
what's on the that's just on the the
definition of
>> well you can keep cutting me off that's
perfectly fine I'm saying that you're
disconnecting yourself from that and
seeing that hey I think this is probably
not good but it has nothing to do with
me
the fact that you can put yourself in
that position
You mean I can be simple?
>> I wanted to join in on this women's
psychology course tonight.
>> You here to dog pile JS? Come on. What
you got?
>> You got five. You got five minutes or so
and I got to get out of here.
>> Yeah. I'm going to say sympathy is
sympathy is selfish virtue signaling.
You don't feel sorry for somebody else.
You feel sorry because it makes you feel
good inside.
>> I feel sorry for you. Okay, that's a
different we took a completely different
scenario. But anyway, uh, leave you a
point.
>> JS is going one step further. He's
denying even sympathy exists now.
>> Yeah, he's Yeah, I can't go with you
down this road, JS. Sorry.
>> You're going You're going somewhere I
can't follow.
>> And I feel really terrible for him. I
have some level of
>> I say it exists. It exists for women.
They're supposed to feel that way cuz
they have kids.
>> Okay.
>> You want You want to refine this to a
point and then maybe I can I can
respond. what exactly are you getting
at?
>> Yeah, I agree with everything you said
about empathy. You can't you can't feel
for somebody else. Sympathy though,
>> uh you shouldn't grant them sympathy
either because
>> the sympathy is
both words.
>> You're thinking for somebody else
because you're thinking if it happened
to you,
>> happiness, sadness, all of this isn't
real, guys.
>> It's all the simulation. JS, you're
poisoning the well. Doing good work
here. You come in here, you just like
knocking out everything, man. What are
you doing?
>> It's all It's all a simulation. And
Kieran's And Kieran's the programmer.
>> You and Abe did good. You just caved.
You shouldn't have granted them
sympathy.
>> I never did.
>> I never No, I never grant them empathy.
Why would I not grant them sympathy?
>> Because sympathy is no different. It's
the same thing. It's It's
>> No, it's not.
>> What is What is feeling bad for somebody
ever done for them?
>> What were we going to say, Leafy?
>> Easy. I got to say like I feel like this
comes to like what our conversation was
when I said that empathetic
>> uh responses were a part of evolutionary
growth.
>> Oh yeah.
>> And so like when we get into this
conversation that I feel like I
>> and I'd love to have this conversation
but it's way too late. I'd love to just
like burn this whole analogy to the
ground but uh
>> you can't you are capable. Yeah, I am
definitely more than capable. Easy. In
fact, it would be light work. It would
be light work. Light work. I wouldn't
even like have to like
>> Easy. Set me up with this dude.
>> All right.
>> Well, good. I'm looking for the panel.
I'm going come in like I did with this
one hot and I'm going to like destroy
everything you think is real. Good.
But anyway, gentlemen, gentlemen,
gentlemen, easy. Loved it. I appreciate
the spirited back and forth. Um,
everybody else, same thing. Uh, it's
nice to be uh outnumbered once. I like
it. I like I see where you're going,
easy. I see where you're going from.
>> I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry you're
not human.
>> Shit's happening, man. I like it. I like
it. Now, it happens when you're No, it
happens when you're a trends setter and
you and you you're paving the way and
you have a bunch of limmings trying to
like, you know, hold on to their their
reality that is crumbling before them.
That's what it is.
>> How many kids you got? How many kids you
got?
>> Uh, two. Two. Hopefully. Third one on
the way. We'll see.
>> No, 10 more. Come on, Mo. Oh, we got
Congratulations.
>> I just said three. I didn't I didn't say
it would stop at three. I'm just going
to
>> I got to count in order. I can't go I
can't go from two to seven, you know.
>> Hey, you got you got a cute sister
that [__] bacon kids, right?
>> I don't blame you, Mo. I don't blame
you.
But now you're playing zones.
>> Um my prayer from an atheist. So like
you're having an atheist prayer
>> that your kids
have empathy for each other and can
understand.
>> Hey dear big bang in the sky please
bless my efforts and friend to to good
uh happiness please big bang help him
something like that
>> yeah dear
>> exactly dear big bang
>> you were the big
>> please Darwin please Darwinian save me
save me from this
>> yeah please Darwin please Darwin St.
Darwin of the Big Bang.
>> St. Darwin save his kids from being
[__]
>> All right. But yeah, uh, pleasure, guys.
Love it. Uh, maybe I can come up again
and argue again. You guys can, uh, throw
some more stuff at me, but I I felt like
I got a little more. I'm going to watch
this back. Uh, it's definitely helped
refine things. But, uh, thank you. Talk
to you guys later. God bless.
>> Have a great night. As much as I know
you later, man.
>> Terriak doesn't want me on his side. I
agree with Terak. I will empathize for
you cuz I've been wrong many times
myself. So
>> I want as much people on my side as
possible.
>> Terak Terak's a leprechaun. He's greedy.
He wants all the gold.
>> He won tonight.
>> Dennis said atheist praying is a good
first.
>> Oh [__] That is a good one.
>> What are you uh what are you doing after
this? Terry equity open panel.
>> Wheel of madness, baby.
>> Wheel of madness. All right. Wicked.
>> Wow, man. I can't I can't keep doing
Wheel of Madness anymore, bro. You're
taking all my damn money, bro. Just cuz
I'm tired of that song. I can't do it
anymore.
>> Ah [__] All right. Well, are you uh you
going to start up now? I think I'm going
to wrap this up.
>> Yep.
>> Yeah. All right. All right. Put your You
want to put your StreamYard in the back,
too? Want to go over there?
>> Yep. And also tell everyone uh where
they find you.
>> You find me at the end of the rainbow.
Uh yeah, you find me Terak P A R E Y A
K. YouTube, Twitter, uh or X, um
whatchamacallit, uh Twitch, Kick, all
the socials, uh all and any of the
socials.
>> Um and yeah, shout out to Easy for
putting her on. Apologize for being
late, uh obviously. And uh yeah uh
looking forward to to doing it all again
next one next time around.
>> Yeah.
>> So I thought you were drunk as [__]
yesterday. Um I really want to hear you
say something terri cuz my Irish accent
is dog [__]
>> So from uh Sin City when you watch the
roof of a pub crashing in and you see
all the parts falling off of people a
bit of bang bang isn't going to quote
it.
It's I think it's because your voice is
so deep, you know what I mean? Because
like you typically with the Irish
potato, you know what I mean? So it's
like it's uh it needs a bit of work, you
know?
>> Do that again. Do that again. Do that
again. Do that again.
>> Potato.
>> Yeah. I say when you hear the roof
falling off a pub and you see all the
parts falling off of people, a bit of
bang banging isn't going to cut it. A
bit of bang bang.
>> Yeah, right.
>> I can't say Terry is gonna say it better
than I can 100% every time.
>> Hey, you want to give it you want to
give it for a pint?
>> It's kind of similar to like the
Scandinavians. Like the Scandinavians
are a difficult uh accent to impersonate
as well.
>> I just say the N word better.
Oh [__]
>> All right. Anyone else got something for
the chat before we wrap up?
Sorry, say that again. What? I was busy.
>> I just said, "Do you guys have anything
to give to the chat before we wrap it
up?" Uh,
>> Ty was correct.
>> Oh, no. By all means, chaos help us say
your
>> Oh, I was just I was just going to say,
yeah, best chat on YouTube. Uh, Easy
Easy needs to release these tracks that
he's got. Uh, so I can have a workout
playlist. And, uh, Terak needs to give
me some gold cuz I swear that's how the
legends really go when he's lying. And
uh other than that uh empathy does exist
in my personal opinion. And if you are
not empathetic, you're probably
sociopathic.
>> Good [__] I I agree with Terry's
position. I think empathy does exist and
the fact that Abe had to contend with
the idea that exists while
fighting with every other ideology that
came around it were good. As much as I
hate agreeing with terri, I'm here right
now and uh this is what speak easy does.
So the fact that we can get
differentiating views even with things
we don't agree with.
>> We now have a platform to get these
thoughts across. So
>> I'm here for it.
>> Public disc public discourse is how we
move forward with society. And this is
uh it's great to see this stuff
happening because when I was growing up
it would just lead to hands. You know
what I mean?
That's true.
>> I wouldn't want to throw hands with
Terry. He's just way too
>> boxing match coming in this sad.
>> He'll bottle He'll bottle He'll bottle
you with a 26 of Jameson. He won't even
fight you, bro. Just
>> take this risky.
>> That's not true. They call him the
Fighting Irish. Remember that. It's
called the Fighting Irish. Remember? All
right, guys. Love you guys. Thank you
guys for coming. Uh, and everyone in the
chat. Uh, again, can't thank you all
enough for being here with me. Uh, I'm
going to be sending you guys over to
Terry X. Uh, he's doing the wheel of
madness. If you guys don't know what
that is, uh, first off, you should go
check it out. But it's a open panel and
then he has a wheel there with a bunch
of different topics. They spin the wheel
to get the topics rolling, you know,
real uh, back and forths going and then
if you want to change the topic because
you're like, "Nah, this is boring. I
want a different topic." or you just
want to make it exciting and just change
it up for fun, you hit the you send in
some uh $10, I think it is. Spin the
wheel and get it rolling. Lots of one v
ones happen. It's it's exciting. It's a
good uh it's a good little game he's got
going over there. So, you guys should uh
definitely stick around and go check
that out. All right, but again, I can't
thank you guys enough for coming and uh
joining me tonight. All right, I really
can't thank you guys. Uh, if you guys
haven't seen, you know what? I'll just
play it. I'll play it before we go. One
sec. One sec. I'll play one thing before
we go. It's like eight minutes. It's
like an 8 minute quick little 8 minute
video. Uh, if you guys didn't get to
see, I put it out as a video already.
Um, if my lovely wife could share it in
the uh chat there for everyone so they
have the link to the actual video.
But I'm going to play it here for you
guys. Just one sec. I'm setting up the
raid. All right. Got the raid set up
there.
And now, let me go to
the video.
I think this one turned out good. This
one turned out good.
Uh, let me present it.
And I called it Goofy of the Day. The
man who tried to tax my donkey.
Yeah.
Quiet down.
A new goofy creature just entered the
habitat.
>> Goofy hunter on patrol. Tag ready.
>> Net loaded.
>> Another clown about to get relocated.
I'm the goofy hunter walking sound a
horn. Honk honk. Clown tracks on the
ground. I can tell by the patterns they
for
>> 404 men on. Why did you get banned? Uh
because I called out speak easy for
taking all the donations for himself,
putting in his pocket, not giving back
to anybody on his panel. And I guess
that's taboo. You're not allowed to ask
a moderator to send $5 to the debaters
that spend four hours debating
who you who you enjoy and you like and
you believe that they are, you know,
they need this little bit of uh value so
they can keep going.
The minar crash was unexpected. How much
did speak get during the debate that he
feels this out of pocket about it? It's
not about this debate. It's about every
single debate. All these moderators do
is they take all these donations for
these questions that we're supposed to
answer. And yeah, if your channel is
actually a nonbiased and has a huge uh
following and you can actually gain
subscribers from it, that's great. But
how many how many debates have I done
with Speak Easy where I've gained zero
followers, zero value, didn't make a
dollar from Speak Easy and his viewers.
And so this idea that I'm just going to
free make free value from him just
because I existed on his channel.
Sometimes maybe, but not every single
time. So, it would be nice to have
something guaranteed, which is $2 to $5
donations. You're making a lot of
donations every stream, $200 to $300,
and you're a try trash tiny moderator
and you're making that much. And I'm
sure if you actually send money to these
debaters, the viewers will donate more,
especially if they know that you're
going to send the money at the end to
the view to the debaters. the debaters
will stay longer and come up with better
arguments.
And um I think it just will benefit this
whole ecosystem much better than just
giving these son of a [__] [__] pig
eating Christian larpers who support
murdering American citizens on American
floor uh streets uh by a federal force
uh by a federal agency. Uh I just think
that these [__] disgusting people I'm
I'm done with this meta. They just take
all that money.
>> Ladies and gentlemen,
today's
goofy of the day
goes out to a man named Manar Reports.
Today's goofy is a man who believes if
you build a stage, set up the lights,
design the overlays, write the prompts,
schedule the debates, promote the show,
moderate the chaos, bring the audience,
take the reputational risk, and run the
entire production,
and then people voluntarily send super
chats to your channel. You also owe the
guests money. You don't even own the
microphone, and you're asking for the
ticket booth. Let me slow this down for
you because you know donkey pole cart.
Some of y'all confuse
participation with ownership.
Let me help you out. If I buy the
donkey, I feed the donkey. I build the
cart. I fix the wheels. I maintain the
roads.
I advertise the ride.
And then you hop in the back of the cart
and start talking. At what point did the
donkey become community property? You
rode the cart, sir. You didn't raise the
donkey. This is I clapped at the
concert, so I deserve a percentage of
the tour. This is I tasted a cupcake
sample and now I own the bakery. This is
I had a good conversation with my Uber
driver, so now I need equity in the
company.
No,
you [__] participated. There was no
contract. There's no revenue agreement.
This isn't Super Chat Redistribution Act
of 2026.
You showed up voluntarily.
It's a collaboration. It's exposure.
It's not equity.
And the funniest part is when he's mad,
the arguments get louder. when logic
gets thinner for him. Some people uh
like Manar think if you raise the
volume, you'll raise the validity.
But this isn't how reasoning works.
Manar, if decibb determine truth, then
jet engines would run universities.
Yelling doesn't strengthen your
premises. It scares the microphone that
you have in front of your mouth. And
then let's add this bonus layer of moral
accusations. Imagine calling me a fake
Christian because I don't redistribute
voluntary donations. Charity is
voluntary. Entitlement is forced.
Those are not cousins as much as we know
you love cousins. Manar,
they don't even sit at the uh the same
Christmas dinner table. Okay. Super
chats are voluntary donations to the
platform that's hosting the event.
Without the platform, there is no super
chat. Without the audience, there's no
one to donate. Without the production,
there's no moment to donate to. You
cannot demand dividends from
infrastructure you didn't help build.
If I started automatically splitting
super chats, you know what happens
during these debates? They turn into
donation fishing. Every sentence would
become bait. Arguments stretch like
melted cheese because now conflict would
equal cash. You don't build a system
that rewards chaos and then act
surprised when chaos shows up wearing
sneakers. That's for verbal combat
night. By the way, that's like pouring
gasoline on a campfire and then blaming
the wood for the fire getting bigger.
You don't walk into someone else's house
during their party and then demand half
the door charge because you told a good
joke to some of the people there. You
don't attend a wedding and ask for half
the cake because you danced. You don't
sit in the barber chair and demand
ownership of the clippers he's using
because you gave feedback on the fade
you got. Participation
is not ownership. Let me say that again
for people riding in the back of the
cart trying to grab the reins.
Participation
is not ownership. If you want a revenue
split, negotiate it with someone
beforehand. If you want equity, build
something. If you want super chats,
start a [__] channel that gets super
chats. Don't hop into somebody else's
cart and demand, "Hey," like you were
out there feeding the donkey at sunrise.
And yelling doesn't make iting
righteous. All right? It just makes it
louder. So for confusing exposure
with employment, for mistaking vibes for
contracts,
for thinking clapping earns you
dividends, and for trying to
collectivize a donkey you never bought.
Congratulations, Manar.
You are today's goofy mother of the day.
It's the goofy of the day.
Goofy of the day.
It's the goofy of the day. Goofy of the
daytime.
It's the goofy of the day.
Goofy of the day.
It's the goofy.
>> That's a That's a good one. That one
That one. At first, I didn't know if I
did good with that one and then I
listened to it back and realized, "Yeah,
that was a good one. That was a good
one. He deserved it." Anyone who missed
it, uh, now you got to see it. Go over
and, uh, hit a like on it, too, you
know, when you get the chance. But yeah,
I'm going to be sending you guys over to
Terry. All right. Um,
love you guys. Okay, everyone. I got We
all got heated with each other. You guys
obviously know because you're not
[__] you know. Don't be
Don't be sad about it. All right.
Still love you guys, too. All right. And
listen, remember, it can be
30 in the chat. It can be 2,000
in the chat. Best chat on YouTube. Hands
[__] down.
Love you guys. God bless you all. have a
beautiful uh night, evening, morning,
whatever it is, wherever you're at.
And uh for now, this is Sparta.
>> SPARTANS,
WHAT IS YOUR PROFESSION?